He called me on an open line out of the blue, and I could barely believe who he was.
His name was Nat Cobitz.
He was the US Navy's former longtime director of science and technology development.
Their chief R&D scientist, their chief geek for many years, for over 30 years.
He was a beautiful guy, and it was an act of courage on his part.
I remember one of the conversations I had with him was,
do you think there's any good reason?
Because this is the thing I wrestle with, and I know you do as well.
What's the dirty secret?
Why can't we know this?
You know, if the US has recovered technology, why can't we know?
And he hadn't been told that.
And he had that rigid doctrinaire thing about how he wasn't read into that part of it.
And that was a compartmentalized issue.
He wasn't entitled to know about.
What he told me was that he'd been told
that the United States had recovered multiple craft, multiple craft.
And he implied very strongly that Roswell and another case
I'm interested in, Aztec and Kingman, all real incidents.
It didn't start or end with Roswell.
On this channel, we have covered myriad of UFO crash retrieval cases
ranging from brief overviews to exhaustive, full investigations.
These cases differ greatly.
Some featuring a wealth of witnesses, paper trails or threads of investigation,
such as 1933 Magenta, Italy, 1965 Kexford, Pennsylvania, in 1953,
Kingman, Arizona, while other cases are plagued by a lack of witnesses,
controversy or incomplete investigation, such as 2008 Needles, California,
1950 El Indio, Texas or 1974 Koyame, Mexico.
There is one UFO crash retrieval case that seems to exist somewhere in the middle,
a case that is often overshadowed by the most infamous UFO crash retrieval case of all time,
1947's Roswell, that occurred just eight months after in northern New Mexico.
This case is marred by controversy, yet bolstered by tremendous investigation
and witness testimony, a case that has been debunked,
labeled as a hoax several times over, but yet still refuses to die.
The 25 March 1948 Aztec, New Mexico UFO crash retrieval.
This incident to me offers unbridled insights into the complexity of UFO crash retrieval,
while the story of the saucer and biologics retrieval has remained consistent across the
decades from several unconnected first and second hand witnesses and informants.
The accusations and reprisals levied against those who have dared to discuss Aztec are indeed
astounding. I'm sure many watching this video are already apprehensive to hear the word Aztec,
after all, the Aztec crash is not without its problems.
The initial sources of the story, Silas Newton and Leo Jabauer are after all convicted conmen,
so this means the case is a simple hoax as Wikipedia and several UFO researchers like
to point out, right? Or is the reputation of these men and the quality of the endless debunks
against Aztec just as complex as the rest of the story itself? Why in the world would I cover a
case that so many have written off as a hoaxed event perpetuated to sell oil-finding devices?
Taking a step back and analyzing almost 80 years of research on this case reveals to me,
just as William Steinman titled his 1986 book, that Aztec is indeed a well-kept secret.
From similarities with the Aztec crash transport and the words of former director of naval
intelligence Sumner Shapiro in conversation with NASA mission specialist Bob Eschler to the
possible involvement of some of the United States' most legendary scientists including
Vannevar Bush, John von Neumann, and J. Robert Oppenheimer. To bizarre late 40s and early 50s
efforts by US agencies such as AFOSI, Air Force Office of Special Investigation, and FBI's attempts
to intercept photos of the crash disc, every single avenue of the Aztec case is rich with
the call for investigation. The Aztec crash may just give us access to travel back in time
and analyze the fledgling years of UFO legacy program operations. Not only to study how the
United States' top minds were employed to study recovered technologies of unknown origin,
but also to gauge the severity with which UFO retrieval teams would attempt to rectify the
public folly that was the July 1947 Roswell, New Mexico crash. So, travel back in time with me
to the early morning of 25 March 1948 onto a rocky mesa just 12 miles northeast of Aztec,
New Mexico, and let's investigate the case of an enormous crashed disc of non-human origin
taken into the custody of US military and scientists and the ensuing sophisticated campaign
of organized disinformation. Hey guys, it's UAP Gerb, and I am thrilled for you to join me today
as we discuss a case that in my opinion requires a Herculean amount of analysis and investigation,
the 1948 Aztec, New Mexico UFO crash retrieval. This investigation serves to comprehensively
analyze the story of Aztec, the witnesses, sources, and reporters involved, the attempts to prove the
case a hoax, as well as the possible structure of early UFO crash retrieval organizations in the
possible involvement of the ever elusive Majestic 12. So, did a 99.9 foot diameter disc manned by
14 to 16 humanoids really crash just south of Durango, Colorado in 1948? Did Bush, Oppenheimer,
Von Neumann, and other esteemed scientists personally investigate the retrieved disc?
Did the interplanetary phenomenon unit really disassemble and take the craft to Los Alamos
National Labs? Or is this case, just as Wikipedia would have you believe,
just a simple hoax by the con men Silas Newton and Leo Gabauer will join me today as we try and
find out. And before we get started, as I just mentioned, the structure of the Aztec case is
labyrinthine, possibly purposely so, and due to the complexity of this case we will primarily
reference six key sources, three of which are sublime books written about the crash saucer,
the legendary 1950s behind the flying saucers by Frank Scali, which introduced the world to Aztec.
1986's hidden gem, UFO crash at Aztec, a well-kept secret by one of my favorite UFO
researchers, William Steinman, which resurrected the case while naming possible officials and
scientists behind the retrieval. 2015's the Aztec UFO incident, the case, evidence,
an elaborate cover-up of one of the most perplexing crashes in history by Scott and Suzanne Ramsey,
which carefully and excellently evaluates the witnesses and sources of Aztec,
addresses skeptics and debunkers, and carefully evaluates the case as a whole.
The last, which is technically a collection of works, is the legendary UFO researcher Leonard
Stringfield and his magnum opus UFO crash retrieval status reports one through seven,
which introduces a plethora of new witnesses, sources, and information to the case.
You may have noticed here, I only listed four of six sources. Well, this is because we will
also address, study, and evaluate the two major debunks to the New Mexico flying saucer retrieval.
1952's flying saucers and the mysterious little men, written by the jealous JP Kahn,
which shot to destroy the Aztec case, author Frank Scali and Scali sources Silas Newton,
and the amalgamation of nine scientists called Dr. G. Kahn falsely labeled as one singular man,
Leo Gabauer. As well as 1975's, the flying saucer crash of 1948 is a hoax by Mike McKellen,
which released just one year after sources of Leonard Stringfield breathed new life into the
case. Now real fast, last thing, many who watch this channel know Steinman's book is one of the
most elusive and coveted UFO crash retrieval books of all time. After all, only 1,000 copies were
ever printed. But guys, I am thrilled to say for this project, I have purchased this title for
myself so we can enjoy high quality scans of pages and images. And with all that out of the way,
let us finally dive in.
Following the Second World War and sitting at the dawn of the Cold War, the Southern U.S. State of New
Mexico was ripe with atomic energy and weapons development. The state employed numerous high
powered radar installations to defend crown jewel weapons testing in RDT&E facilities,
such as Los Alamos National Labs, White Sands Missile Range, and Sandia National Labs from
Soviet bomber attacks. By 1948, the year of our incident, the elder UFO legacy program Gatekeeping
Structure, the Atomic Energy Commission, was engaged in one project, Twinkle, a program that
analyzed UFOs, including green fireballs at Los Alamos, Sandia, and Holloman Air Force Base.
Therefore, I'd say it's safe for us to assume the Atomic Energy Commission in the newly formed
United States Air Force radars detected an object of unknown origin near Aztec, New Mexico,
roughly 160 miles from Los Alamos. Indeed, sources of William Steinman would appear on record in
1986, claiming the craft was identified by three separate Southwest radar installations.
Viewers of my channel will likely recall mention of Los Alamos and Sandia in almost every single
project I do as engaging in UFO legacy program operations from craft and material housing
to TUO or technologies of unknown origin exploitation, and we will expand on this much
more later on. Numerous eyewitnesses described seeing a low-flying saucer-shaped object wobbling
as if it were in peril, colliding or nearly colliding with nearby mesas until it was seen
crashing in nearby Hart Canyon. The subject of local eyewitnesses to Aztec is of tremendous
importance to our investigation, and we will discuss virtually all publicly named Aztec
witnesses later on in our investigation. Citizens, ranchers, two policemen, and nearby
oil field workers quickly arrived to the crash scene. To this day, it is still unknown what
caused this crash after Roswell. Several researchers believe somehow high-powered radar
interfered with the craft's propulsion systems. These sentiments were shared by Colonel Philip
J. Corso of the U.S. Army Foreign Technology Division, who theorized the Roswell crash just
eight months prior had crashed due to radar interference. This becomes all the more interesting
as we describe this crash retrieval. All eyewitness accounts describe the craft as fully undamaged,
but perhaps there is credence to the theory the craft was down via high-powered radar.
During their boots on the ground crusade to validate or falsify the Aztec crash,
Scott and Suzanne Ramsey met with one Lee Crane. Crane worked in the Aztec area during 1950.
Crane discussed how USAF personnel from the El Vado 767 AC&W radar site originally the
Los Alamos radar installation to protect Los Alamos, and one of the sites likely involved with the
tracking of non-human saucers would frequent the same diner as Crane. These Air Force personnel
would bring in freshly killed, half-cooked ducks that they stated had been knocked out of the air
by powerful microwave radar being used at the facility.
Now viewers of my channel will absolutely recall, as recently as my project on SAIC,
that I frequently discuss how Ronald Reagan's 1983 Strategic Defense Initiative,
built to protect the United States from Soviet ICBMs, secretly engaged in highly
compartmentalized, deep-sixed UFO program operations, some of which harnessed STIs,
lethality, and target hardening or particle beam weapons programs to offensively target UFOs with
microwave or X-ray weaponry. In this project, I discussed how SAIC would have likely been the
prime contractor aiding the SDI in shooting down non-human craft, and quite the interesting
connection here. Possibly, these weapons against UFOs were accidentally discovered during the late
1940s. But now, let's get back to late March 1948 on top of the Hart Canyon Mesa. Consistent
across eyewitness statements ranging from the sources of Skully, Newton, and the Ramses are
reports of an enormous craft measuring 99.9 feet, resting virtually undamaged atop the Mesa at an
angle. Though crashed, could this saucer have landed on its own guidance? The saucer appeared
of a light metal composition, absent from any rivets, bolts, screws, signs of welding,
landing gear, or propulsion systems. In the middle of the bizarre craft sat what appeared to be a
crew cabin, an almost sphere measuring 18 feet in diameter and 6 feet in height. Locals from
Aztec and oilfield workers began to climb aboard the craft, remarking how light the material was.
In quickly on scene, witnesses described a helicopter flying overhead. The site was almost
surreal to eyewitnesses such as Doug Nolan, as the likely Sikorsky H-5 series or Bell H-13 was
quite new technology. Rapidly, men in uniform, unknown if army or air force, as the two were
recently separated, pulled to the scene in jeeps that were befitting of the US Army.
Multiple witness testimonies surrounding Aztec state the recovery effort was conducted out of
the USAF Walker Base in New Mexico. Allegedly, personnel were flown to Durango, Colorado,
where a short drive was completed to the crash site. This will be explored further later by
witnesses such as USAF Airmen known as pseudonym George, and Walker Air Force Base was the new name
for Roswell Army Airfield. The onsite military immediately separated citizens at the crash
site, informing them never to speak about the incident and informing the locals on scene.
The object was extremely important to US national security.
Now, Frank Scully's early 50s recount of Aztec, as informed by Silas Newton,
states investigators onsite were able to gain access to the craft via punctured porthole.
As investigators approached the seemingly glass like windows, they observed these portholes were
not glass, but indeed semi-translucent. Inside the craft, two humanoid bodies were
observed slumped over an instrument panel that appeared to be but four feet high, charred,
and possibly mangled. According to Scully, investigators jammed a wood or metal rod
into the mysteriously punctured porthole poking and prodding at the instrument panel
until a panel opened up giving access to the craft. Inside the vehicle appeared to be a separate
crew cabin where 12 to 14 separate bodies lay dead on the ground.
While the story of the crash, the retrieval process, and the method of gaining entry to
the craft are near identical, Steinman's account introduces far more specific,
such as named onsite scientific retrieval personnel. Steinman writes the 30 to 40-year-old
seasoned military members on scene were members of the Interplanetary Phenomenon Unit, a long
forgotten US Army division shown to Steinman by the Freedom of Information Act to exist solely
through institutional memory. IPU has its own controversy and juicy alleged report in the
Majestic 12 leaks which we will address in a section specifically on IPU. According to Steinman's
sources, the impact area of the craft was relayed to Air Defense Commander General George C. Marshall,
who then contacted the IPU and head of the Majestic 12, the illustrious,
head of the US Office of Scientific Research and Development, Dr. Vannevar Bush.
Steinman first learned of the existence of IPU in the early 1980s so it is intriguing by 1986.
He had learned the IPU allegedly operated out of Camp Hale, Colorado and served the function
to collect and deliver disabled or crashed disks to certain specific secret locations.
Now, Vannevar Bush in the M.J. 12. Bush is named Adnausium in the Majestic documents,
most famously the Eisenhower Briefing Document as M.J. 1, the head of the secret organization
created under President Harry Truman to act as the original UFO legacy program.
But Bush's ties to UFOs are not solely relegated to the Majestic documents. Later in this project,
we will discuss physicist and prodigy of Einstein, Robert A. Sarbacher, who claimed in 1950 UFO
programs were classified higher than the H-bomb and operated under Vannevar Bush. Keep an eye out
for this section later on. Accompanying Bush in the IPU was a team of eight other scientists we
will touch on when we cover in greater detail Steinman's work, but these included Dr. Robert
J. Oppenheimer, Dr. John von Neumann, and Dr. Detlev Bronk. Four of these men have been labeled
as original Majestic 12 members. On site, according to Steinman's work, the team accessed the craft
via punctured porthole. Inside the cabin sat two humanoid figures, with 12 more bodies littered
across the chamber. With Aztec, we do see varying reports of 12 to 16 bodies. Instrument panels
around the craft wall showed high-tech screens sprawled with glyphic-style writing. From Randy
Anderson to Mark's 1991 Deep Sea Recovery to 1965 Kexburg, glyphic iconography is inseparable
from non-human technology. A quote-unquote book was found inside the craft or better described as a
pamphlet of plastic displaying the same glyphic-style writing. General Marshall allegedly passed this
on to two leading cryptologists, William F. Freedman and Lambrose C. Calihamos,
who were unsuccessful in their attempts to decipher the codes. Physiologist and biophysicist
Dr. Detlev Bronk ordered the bodies to be placed on dry ice. According to Steinman's sources,
Air Research Corporation supplied freezing equipment as director of R&D of the corporation,
Dr. Paul A. Scherer was both a colleague of Vannevar Bush and a cryogenic specialist.
As a quick detour, I do find it rather fascinating in 1954 under the administration
of the recent presidential incumbent Dwight D. Eisenhower. Dr. Paul A. Scherer was one
of 12 scientists named onto the board of directors of a group called the American Association for
the Advancement of Science that sought radical changes in the scientific community. This panel
of esteemed scientists sought to harness global scientific advancements for humanity's progress
instead of preserving, quote, the secrecy of scientific knowledge we already have, end quote.
Seen as Dwight D. Eisenhower is often cited as the president who lost control of UFO legacy
programs, who ran an administration in which non-human crash retrieval and material exploitation
programs broke free from traditional oversight channels and gained unprecedented autonomy.
How fascinating is it that Dr. Paul A. Scherer, a scientist alleged to have participated in
non-human biologics retrieval in 1948, desperately sought to see the end of scientific secrecy
under the guise of national security following the Truman administration?
Dr. Bronk would allegedly go on to detail full autopsies for the pilots, which were published in
the legendary Ever Elusive and Deep Sixth Project Blue Book Slash Sign Report Number 13.
These bodies feature disproportionately large heads, slant eyes, small noses, and mouths.
The creatures weighed solely 40 pounds on average with small torsos and thin necks.
The fingers of the creatures were webbed and internal systems revealed no digestive systems
or gastrointestinal tracts, no alimentary or intestinal canal, and no reproductive organs.
Instead of blood, the circulatory system of the creatures was comprised of a colorless
liquid with no red cells that smelled like ozone. These creature descriptions sound near
identical to that of the EBE1 detailed in the controversial yet provocative 1950s Majestic
12 Special Operations Manual 1 I have covered in detail with Ryan Wood.
Now, I must mention here is where there are slight variances between Scully's and Steinman's
description of the biologics. Scully described the beans as almost perfectly humanoid,
just scaled differently with perfect teeth. The retrieval process of the crashed disc at Aztec
took up to two weeks. Helicopters certainly were unable to provide the necessary carrying
capacity to retrieve the 99.9-foot disc, so how in the world was it extracted?
These points here to me offer some of the most fascinating insights into Aztec.
Some non-human craft and incredible testimonies hurt decades after the Aztec event.
The craft was dismantled. The science team figured out the large ring of metal rotated
around the centralized, stabilized cabin. Indeed, the scientists were able to dismantle the craft.
The vehicle was manufactured in segments which fitted into grooves and were pinned together
around the base. The vehicle was divided into the crew cabin in three equal-sized pieces of the disc.
Now, stop me if you've heard this before.
Well, I had contacted Admiral Bobby Ray Inman, who was the head of the National Security Agency
in the United States, deputy director at CIA, director of Naval Intelligence and a variety of
intelligence posts, a technologist and clearly someone that if this was really accurate, that
there really were UFOs and non-human intelligence around, this is a man who had to know. So,
I was able to contact him thanks to a contact through Admiral Lord Hill Norton here in the UK.
And this conversation, he alarmingly not only indicated that these issues were covered under
national secrecy laws, but that the United States government did in fact have possession
of the hardware associated with this. In other words, this was an actual physical phenomenon.
A craft, a spaceship.
Several of them, and they were in operational condition.
Bobby Ray Inman, one of if not the most critical figure to this channel,
served as director of the National Underwater Reconnaissance Office, a four-star Navy Admiral,
director of Naval Intelligence, deputy director of Central Intelligence, director of the NSA,
and board member of SAIC Wackenhut and possibly DSAI. And Inman seems to connect to every project
I do these days. I have multiple videos where Inman is discussed at length, so I highly recommend
checking out any of these projects. Famously, in a 1989 recorded phone call with NASA mission
specialist Bob Echler, Inman volunteered CIA directorate of science and technology deputy
director and NRO program B director R. Everett Heineman as the person to ask about recovered
UFOs becoming available for technological research. Inman would additionally connect
Bob Echler with another former director of Naval Intelligence, Sumner Shapiro.
In 1989, Echler met Shapiro under the pretense he was interested in working with the quote-unquote
group that managed UFO information. At this time, Shapiro was retired as DNI and served as an
executive with BDM International. BDM, of course, is another former defense contractor
purchased by Northrop Grumman I have directly accused of being involved with the UFO Legacy
program operations. Shapiro informed Echler, factions within the U.S. possessed extraterrestrial
vehicles that he, Shapiro, had even studied at close quarters. According to the former DNI,
teams would take the craft apart, pack them up and ship them around the country to different
laboratories. The craft featured unique interlocking components that had to be disassembled in an
exact sequence to be put back together. Was Shapiro talking about the Aztec case? After all,
in how many UFO crash retrieval cases do we hear of a craft being dismantled in a complex and
direct method? Let's also focus on this rotatable crew compartment. USAF Master Sergeant Edgar
Fouchet claimed the TR-3B alien reproduction vehicle whose propulsion systems were reverse-engineered
by Lawrence Livermore Labs and Sandia National Labs from non-human propulsion systems featured a
rotatable crew compartment within the triangle. The circular plasma-filled accelerator ring called
the magnetic field disruptor surrounds a rotatable crew compartment. It's far ahead of anything
you've ever imagined as far as technology. Sandia and Livermore laboratories developed a reverse
engineered MFD and I believe the government will go at any lengths to protect this technology
but you're not going to be able to build one of these from what I tell you.
Anyways, after careful dismantling of the craft, multiple concrete pads still available to this
day were constructed to assist three M25 Dragon wagon tank transports which were stored in New
Mexico bases post-World War II. Indeed, the Ramses were able to find Bureau of Reclamation
records from 1948 discussing heavy earth moving equipment, cranes, and low-boys being used to
move concrete and steel structures in Aztec for the Manco's project. Mention of the Bureau of
Reclamation possibly supplying equipment for moving of the Aztec craft gives us means to pause
and reflect. Seen as in works prior, I have discussed tunneling contracts for tunnel boring
machines under the Bureau of Reclamation secretly engaging in clandestine operations to aid in
the construction of deep underground military bases in their alleged connective tunnel systems.
The convoy carrying enormous pieces of a disk avoided roads to Aztec and drove the wreckage
to Los Alamos National Labs. The bodies were transported away, likely to write patterns in
Air Force Base, and the craft remained at Los Alamos for over a year before being transported
again. The craft being shipped around serves as another nod to Shapiro, no? And quickly,
just in case you are unfamiliar with my other work, mention of Los Alamos as the first destination
for the craft is of massive consequence. I've previously discussed extensive ties with Los
Alamos National Labs, a Department of Energy federally funded research and development center,
and deep underground military bases, UFO legacy program gatekeepers, possible material exploitation
programs, etc. But relevant to today's discussion, let's look back to 1994 to the
words of former New Mexico State Representative J. Andrew Kistner. Kistner stated sources within
White Sands Proving Ground and the Naval Research Lab informed him that two to four flying disks
were recovered during 1947 and 1948, and the disks were possessed and analyzed by both
Los Alamos National Labs and Sandia National Labs 7th Division under control of the Atomic
Energy Commission. Kistner's sources claimed that institutions such as MIT, Brookhaven National
Labs, the Rand Corporation, and Joint Research and Development Board, created partly and shared
by Dr. Vannevar Bush, played a quote unquote major role following the 1947 crashes.
Additionally prudent to Aztec, Kistner mentioned Project Supremacy,
a possible UFO related program created in 1947 that operated specifically to track and perform
data acquisition on triangulated New Mexico radar sites. The New Mexico State Rep would even state
his sources claimed presidential executive order signed in 1948 allowed the Atomic Energy Commission
full custody of the recovered disks with the National Security Council serving as program
coordinator with support from the Air Force Systems Command, the Naval Research Laboratory,
and Dr. Bush's Research and Development Board. One might recall here how Dr. Eric Davis spoke
of PEEDS, a presidential emergency action document signed in the 50s by President Eisenhower to
structure UFO legacy program operations outside of congressional oversight. In fact, post-Roswell
early July 1947, leading up to the morning of 25 March 1948, we may have even more actionable
intelligence that signifies elements of the United States government and military were actively
engaging in establishing programs to deal with recovered non-human craft. On 29 January 1947,
Secretary of War Robert P. Patterson and Secretary of the Navy, original accused MJ12 member and
likely murder victim James V. Forestall, established AFSWP, the Armed Forces Special
Weapons Project. This AFSWP was tasked to manage nuclear weapons jointly staffed by U.S. Army and
Navy. At this time, the AFSWP operated within Los Alamos and Sandia National Labs. As we know
from the 2023 and 2024 UAPDA legislation, UFO data, materials, etc., have historically been
misclassified as trans-classified foreign nuclear information under the 1954 Atomic Energy Agreement.
This threat is indeed intriguing that possibly the AFSWP out of Los Alamos and Sandia handled
the wreckage of both the Roswell and Aztec crashes and served as the foundation out of which the
Atomic Energy Commission established a 1954 agreement to obfuscate and hide UFO data.
But now that we have covered the basis of the Aztec crash, let's really start to dive in.
The Aztec crash made its way into the public zeitgeist with Frank Scully's 1950 best-selling
book Behind the Flying Saucers. Though Scully had previously written about this incident in
1949 in two variety magazine columns, Behind the Flying Saucers served as a
second real book on flying saucers after Donald Keyhoe's Flying Saucers are real.
Scully's book truly served as the impetus for conversations between physicist and consultant
to Vannevar Bush's Research and Development Board Robert Sarbacher and Canadian radio engineer
Wilbert B. Smith that would ultimately lead to Canada's first two official programs on UFOs,
Project Magnet and Second Story. We will expand on this much later in the investigation,
and I also have an entire video on Sarbacher. But Wilbert B. Smith asking Sarbacher about
Frank Scully's best seller and how much of it was ultimately true led to one of the most
fascinating memos of all time. Sarbacher informs Smith that not only the contents of
Behind the Flying Saucers were fundamentally correct, but also that flying saucers exist.
The subject of UFOs is classified in the United States even higher than the H-bomb.
And efforts to capture and study UFOs were spearheaded by Vannevar Bush.
Scully's book reported the Aztec incident as we discussed prior. Besides the data from Steinman,
which we identified, Scully also reported that up to 1950 there had been four such recoveries.
Within the book, Scully suggested based on his plentiful sources, UFOs operated on magnetic
principles, and that finally brings us to Scully's sources, the linchpin of this entire video.
Scully's source of the Aztec crash was one Mr. Silas M. Newton, a complicated, questionable,
and intriguing character who requires ample time to investigate, as well as Mr. G,
an amalgamation of up to eight scientists. Newton claimed no first-hand experience with
the crash retrieval, bar-handling equipment retrieved, souvenirs claimed in pieces taken from
the crash. Newton's information came to him from his close, first-hand confidence, the enigmatic
Mr. G. Indeed, a 1952 debunk on Aztec attempted to label Mr. G as just one man, the equally
complicated Leo Gabauer, but this is simply not the case. Using the work of Suzanne and Scott Ramsey,
as well as William Steinman, we will actually attempt to name as many of the Mr. G's as
possible later in this investigation. After all, throughout the book, Scully would describe the
collection of G's as having, quote, more degrees than a thermometer, end quote. Scully and Newton
would take these names with them to the grave. Scully first heard of the Aztec event from Silas
Newton, owner of the Newton Oil Company with a truly checkered past. The two had a relationship
for multiple years, and early on when discussing flying saucers, Newton invited Scully to the
Mojave Desert to test an oil-finding device called a doodle bug that Newton would later
on face charges for, a fraudulent device that may just have more basis in reality than Hoke's
arguments would admit. Newton would introduce Scully to Dr. G, and Dr. G would tell Scully
much of what we had covered today, the recovery being intact, low salamos retrieving the vehicle,
the craft operated by magnetism, and that some sort of plastic pamphlet was found in the craft
with symbols that were not successfully deciphered. Dr. G infamously showed Scully a cube-like device
that admitted sounds like a radio, and small gear-like objects and discs that they claimed
originated from the Aztec craft, implying these men were actually at the crash site.
The men would even show Scully images of the craft, and keep this in mind as these images
will become important throughout the video, even Scully's widow claimed she had personally seen
these photographs. But Scully wasn't the first person to whom Silas Newton would disclose
information on Aztec. No, after receiving information about the crash from the enigmatic
pool of Mr. G, likely scientists with whom Newton had previously worked alongside in the oil industry,
and before the publishing of Behind the Flying Saucers, Newton had lectured on the crash event
at the University of Denver on 8 March 1950 under the pseudonym Scientist X. At this lecture,
Newton took the place of the original speaker, possibly a Mr. G, and discussed the flying saucer
crash in an effort to interest the students in UFOs. Thankfully, radio salesman and engineer
George Kohler from Denver KMYR who was friends with Newton and possibly some of the Mr. Gs
helped set up this event. Kohler investigated the lecture, and thanks to the Ramsay's keen
research skills, both the recording as well as items from Newton's drawings on the chalkboard
were found in Scully's archive. In this 1950 lecture, Newton discussed a crash of a flying
saucer that occurred two years prior in a 500 mile radius to Denver, drew details of the craft
seen on screen now, and discussed complex magnetism as the craft's propulsive force.
Clearly, this lecture did not go unnoticed, as the day after the lecture,
months before the release of Scully's bestseller, Air Force Office of Special Investigation visited
KMYR Denver looking for Kohler. After two days of trying, Kohler was interrogated by Special Agent
Hansen in Unger about Newton, flying saucers, possible cube-like radios retrieved from the
crash, and more. Thanks to the Ramsay's again for finding and reproducing this interrogation,
in a bizarre twist of events following Newton's lecture on the saucer and the release of behind
the flying saucers in September of 1950, multiple other U.S. agencies were tracking
leads and leaks on the Aztec crash. On 30 September 1950, the Army CID, or Criminal
Investigation Division, reported that a sting operation was staged at the Edelweiss Bar in
Melwyn Hotel in Denver. FBI and CID were trying to intercept the sale of photographs of the
Aztec saucer from one LD McLaughlin to Mr. Klein from the Baltimore Sun. The Ramsay's filed
Freedom of Information Act requests for more documents than the scant few we possess,
but were informed that all were destroyed, and in another fork in the road, there was no Mr. Klein
that worked for the Baltimore Sun at this time. So six months after Newton discussed the Aztec
crash at the University of Denver, the FBI and CID attempted to intercept photos of the crash,
and remember, Scully's widow claimed to see such photos.
Shortly after the release of behind the flying saucers, the case was at large labeled a hoax
due to a September 1952 publication by San Francisco Chronicle writer J. P. Kahn. Kahn
effectively killed the story by making the retrieval appear phony, discrediting Scully
in his most damaging act, discrediting Scully's sources, Newton and Dr. G. After all, around the
time of J. P. Kahn's article, Newton and one Dr. G, Leo Gabauer, who Kahn labeled as the singular
man behind Dr. G, were charged with defrauding Denver businessman Herman Flater. Around the use
of an oil-finding device we discussed called the Doodle Bug. This damning publication and context
around Kahn, Newton, and Gabauer's charges are well worth our time and analysis, as there is
far more here than meets the eye, including questioning the sourcing methods and honesty
of the hero of the hoax, J. P. Kahn. To quote the Ramses for decades, the 1948 Aztec crash
has looked like this quote. Frank Scully's story was going along great until a top shelf
journalist by the name of J. P. Kahn broke the big story of a bunch of Kahn men who had robbed
poor investors out of their life savings in a worthless oil scheme so that they were destitute
and standing in bread lines. Thank God for J. P. Kahn. He saved the day by exposing these Kahn men
who were taking in money and never paying a dime back. These horrible Kahn men were arrested and
sent off to jail, and the Aztec story was nothing more than a fiction concocted by a bunch of bad
and nasty crooks. End quote. While Newton is far from the only source and witness of Aztec,
the story has largely been marred and labeled a hoax due to Kahn's damning piece on Newton.
Predating behind the flying saucers, Scully and Kahn actually shared history. In 1949,
Kahn approached Scully when he got wind of the saucer story in Variety Magazine. Kahn wished to
capitalize off of the craze that was flying saucers. Kahn attempted to purchase the flying
saucer story for the San Francisco Chronicle from Scully in a disgraceful lowball.
The two failed to agree to terms with Scully defiantly resting on his laurels of the validity
of the story over any amount of money. Strangely, Kahn returned to the Chronicle claiming to his
superiors that he and Scully had actually agreed to terms. During these failed business
dealings, Scully had introduced Kahn to Newton at Scully's home. Kahn became almost obsessed with
Newton and the Aztec story, following Newton to San Francisco to get a one and a half hour
meeting with the oilman. Newton would write regarding the dinner with Kahn, quote,
the talk was saucers, saucers. The theme of their talk was that I owed something to the world and
I should let the Chronicle guide me end quote. End quote. The meeting lasted one and a half hours.
They wanted their great conservative paper to get to the bottom, document the whole thing,
and if they thought it was true, then give it to the world, end quote. Ironically, Newton also said,
quote, they would satisfy anyone that they would protect the identity of all concerned, end quote.
Kahn would fully turn his story pitch away from Scully towards Newton, wishing for Newton to
assemble the entire roster of Dr. G for $25,000 in 1952 money in 50% royalties in any publication.
Kahn would famously state in his debunk that during these meetings with Newton,
Silas showed him quote unquote gears from the crash site. But dubiously, Kahn would steal one of
these pieces, have it tested, and determine the relic was simply common aluminum. Now as it turns
out, these pieces from a saucer given to Newton were indeed copies, and while Newton and Scully
had more than likely seen the real collection of items from Dr. G, the items in Newton's
possessions were little more than replicas. This approach by Newton does make logical sense here.
Recall in 1950, AFOSI interrogating radio salesman Kohler about parts from a flying saucer the day
after Newton's University of Denver lecture. In addition, recall how the FBI and Army CID were
actively hunting Aztec photos. JP Kahn would, as a nail in the coffin to Aztec, label one Mr.
Leo Gabauer as the sole Dr. G and implicate the two men in oil fraud. So before we move on to this
criminal case that effectively shredded Newton, Scully, Dr. G, and Aztec, let's go ahead and
dive into Gabauer. Leo A. Gabauer was a phoenix based physical scientist that specialized in
magnetics. Gabauer was a known associate and friend of Newton, and one of the inventors
refers to harness the oil-finding devices infamously called the Doodle Bug.
Now quickly, I have seen some reports that state Newton and Gabauer claimed the Doodle Bug operated
off of non-human technology recovered at Aztec. I have never seen any of these statements from
Newton, Gabauer, or Scully that claim this. In fact, the Doodle Bug seemingly has far more basis
in scientific reality that we will discuss soon. In his debunked piece, Kahn defiantly stated Gabauer
was the sole Dr. G and Newton had informed him of such. The basis for this claim, none.
Gabauer would continuously state in writing, sworn in court, etc., that he was not Dr. G,
so Gabauer was not the Mr. G, but was he a Mr. G? This point is extremely interesting,
as Gabauer may have been in fact one of the Dr. G's relaying information to Newton,
but like everything with this story, nothing is so simple.
In 1986, Steinman would suggest Gabauer and Newton were a targeted leak of information from
none other than a real Dr. G, Majestic 12 member, and scientist on site for the Aztec crash,
Dr. Carl A. Highland. Dr. Highland was the founder and owner of the Highland Research
and Exploration Company based in Denver. Highland was born in Hamburg, Germany, attended the
universities of Heidelberg and Hamburg, gaining his directorate in the latter in 1923,
destined for a career in geology and geophysics. Highland came to the US in 1935,
where he worked as a professor of geophysics at the Colorado School of Mines,
and operated within the nearby oil fields. During his time in Colorado, Highland worked
alongside many of the scientists we will discuss in this chapter, and more than likely engaged
with Leo Gabauer for work on magnetic detection devices as well as successful Denver-based
oil man Silas M. Newton. Some even suggest Highland was originally the scientist X,
supposed to speak at the 1950 University of Denver lecture until Newton took his place.
Researchers outside of Steinman have come to the same conclusion, such as one Richard Ogden,
who wrote in his 1960s unpublished book that he deduced the field of scientist who could in
fact be Dr. G, based on Solly's description and arrived at one Dr. Carl A. Highland.
After all, Scully would state one of the Mr. G's lived in Denver and was able to fly to
the Aztec crash site in two or three hours and that Newton drove with him from Denver to Phoenix.
But let's get back to Scully, Newton, Kahn, Gabauer, and the story of the court case.
After failing to purchase the saucer story from Scully and Newton, being duped by the
copy parts after stealing from Silas, and whether malice or ignorance falsely labeled Dr. G as one
Leo Gabauer, J.P. Kahn acted on his vendetta to destroy the Aztec story, both on paper and behind
the scenes. This can be confirmed in a 15 June 1952 letter from Scully to the attorney of Silas
M. Newton, A. Brigham Rose. The letter discusses Kahn approaching Scully in 1949 when he got
wind of Aztec from Scully's Variety Magazine article. By 1951, Kahn had tried and failed
repeatedly to purchase the story. Kahn quickly became obsessed with Newton and admitted to
Scully he had stolen Newton's replica craft material and replaced it with slug. The letter
additionally stated by late 1951, Kahn visited Scully saying he had been duped, claiming Newton
and G were to be arrested, that he wanted the hoax exposed and to be written under Scully's name,
otherwise they would accuse Scully of being involved in the hoax as well.
On 25 April 1951, J.P. Kahn wrote to J. Edgar Hoover, director of the FBI regarding Silas Newton.
The letter stated that Newton had leaked the Aztec case to Scully and that he was a man with
a checkered criminal history. Kahn also tipped off Hoover that Newton was engaged in the preparation
of a hoax or swindle of large proportions. Strangely enough, the director of the FBI found
time to reply by 3 May 1951 stating the FBI was, quote, to determine if Newton is violating
federal statutes in claiming to be engaged in government research of a secret nature
or in the perpetration of a hoax or swindle of large proportions, end quote.
By 15 May 1951, Kahn responded to Hoover alerting that director information had been made available
to FBI special agents regarding Newton's activities. Now, I find it extremely odd the
director of the FBI would find time to reply to a San Francisco Chronicle writer within a month.
Perhaps as FBI and CID were conducting sting operations to intercept Aztec photographs
in 1950, the bureau was keen to chase down any leads surrounding the Aztec case.
After all, the FBI did have a bizarre file on Newton written roughly one year prior on 31
March 1950. This letter also written to Hoover stated that allegedly a redacted name was told
to have said to another redacted man, Silas Newton, aka Mr. X, had knowledge of a flying disc in
recovered bodies. Some of the details here are incorrect, of course. However, it is intriguing
the FBI was already keeping tabs on Newton just a few short weeks after his Denver lecture on
saucers. And just a few short weeks after, AFOSI interrogated the man who recorded the
lecture, George Kohler. I also find it equally fascinating Scott and Suzanne Ramsey pried
289 pages of Silas Newton documents from the FBI, yet the bureau claimed 100 plus pages were still
unreleasable. The FBI did register multiple documents on Newton before Khan got to them.
One file dated 18 February 1941 reported that, quote, Silas Newton had a very substantial income,
good character, good habits, and no record of lawsuit, collections, or bankruptcy. Both his
companies were reputable concerns, and there was no indication of espionage activities,
end quote. Now of course, the time period of FBI and J. Edgar Hoover investigating Newton
does encourage us to reflect on the 1950 HODL memo. On 22 March 1950, J. Edgar Hoover received an
official memorandum from Washington Special Agent Guy HODL concerning information on flying
saucers. The memo discussed information relayed to Special Agent R. H. Kurtzman by police Special
Investigator Carl Howe and his unnamed informant. According to the memo, an Air Force investigator
stated three flying saucers had been recovered in New Mexico, measuring 50 feet in diameter with
raised centers, manned by humanoid biologics that measured three feet tall dressed in metallic cloth
of a very fine texture. These saucers were apparently found in New Mexico due to high-powered
radar setup in New Mexico interfering with saucer mechanisms. Until this memo was released fully
redacted, many thought the source of this information was Newton. While the memo discussed
crafts similar to Aztec, albeit off-dimension-wise, it is intriguing to continuously hear descriptions
of high-powered radar interfering with craft mechanics. Anyways, I digress.
Khan's outreach to the FBI was very successful. Khan additionally located one Herman Flater,
a Denver businessman who had a series of successful, poor, and speculative business deals.
Flater had invested large sums of money into Newton's oil wells, which paid him pretty
handsome royalties. And the doodle bug, Flater was convinced would make him millions of dollars.
Recall the doodle bug was a term used for an electronic sensing equipment device used to
find oil, gas, water, and whatever else the inventor claimed the unit could locate.
Khan told Flater, quote, you will never see a nickel of your investment because you,
my friend, have been victim of a Khan artist, end quote. This quote was reported in Frank
Scully's book, Armor Bright. Over his dealings with Khan, Flater was convinced the two men
should seek the FBI to pursue legal action against Newton. In 1951, Flater eventually
wished, with the aid of the FBI, to file a criminal case against Newton in his compatriot
of the doodle bug, Leo Gabauer. As he decided, he felt hustled out of 250 grand by the two men.
Again odd, as Flater was actively receiving royalties from Newton's successful oil fields.
Flater would claim that every time Gabauer utilized the doodle bug machine,
he had positive results. However, every time Flater would use the device, nothing happened.
Curiously, the FBI could not find one federal judge to entertain a federal criminal case in
Arizona, Colorado, New Mexico, and Utah, all states in which Newton conducted business.
Flater's attorney eventually went to a magistrate in Denver to prosecute the case
locally, and charges were filed on 10 October 1952. The initial charges levied at Newton in
Gabauer was, quote, interstate transportation of stolen property, end quote, which was defined
as Newton transporting Herman Flater's personal checks across state lines to California to deposit
them into his bank account. The next charges levied were quote unquote worthless machinery,
which led to the arrest of Gabauer in Phoenix and Newton in Los Angeles on 18 October 1952.
Whilst building the case, the FBI found 32 of 33 of Newton and Gabauer's investors were quite
pleased with their investments. Flater was the standout pressing charges.
The trial started on 10 November 1953, and proceedings lasted until 29 December 1953,
when Silas Newton and Leo Gabauer were found guilty of fraud. Based on the work of William
Steinman analyzing court records, it is crucial to analyze how this case was prosecuted.
Disgruntled businessman Herman Flater was the first prosecution witness to take the stand,
presenting his main complaint as his, quote, inability to operate Gabauer's oil detecting
device, end quote. Flater's testimony lasted two weeks, and again, he felt as though Newton
and Gabauer defrauded him of $250,000. On 17 November 1953, the defense for Gabauer presented,
as evidence, a signed contract by Flater that gave him interest in three of the oil detecting
devices in return for his investment. Flater strangely denied signing these documents,
however, eyewitnesses testified to observing Flater's sign.
On 20 November 1953, prosecution called Colorado School of Mines Geophysics Professor Dr. James
Meredith to the stand. Meredith was asked as an expert in geophysical exploration,
if he could prove Gabauer's doodle bugs were legitimate tools. Meredith was shown a device
that was, quote, unquote, very similar to Gabauer's oil detecting tool, but not his device.
The device presented in court was one that the district attorney had purchased at a local war
surplus store for $4.45 and was, quote, very similar to the one Gabauer used, end quote.
The Colorado School of Mines doctor testified regarding the false instrument, quote,
these so-called doodle bugs couldn't detect submarines, much less oil and or gas deposits,
end quote. A second witness, this time a research engineer for the University of Denver,
examined the same knockoff devices and testified that it, quote, couldn't find anything, end quote.
Now let's also take a look at the defense here. Defense attorney Melman served Flater with a subpoena,
ordering Flater to produce a small health machine he supposedly produced and sold part
interest into Silas Newton and Leo Gabauer. So in the same exchange of interest here to this court
case, Flater was buying into the oil detecting device, but Flater was also trying to sell Newton
and Gabauer on a nebulous, quote unquote, health machine. The judge bizarrely decided that this
health machine was not relevant to the case. The second witness called by defense testified
with photo evidence that Gabauer had successfully located three water wells on his company property.
Additional witnesses claimed Gabauer's device had successfully found oil on their 100,000 acre
land, quote, Mr. Gabauer's machine defined 35 oil wells for me. Earlier this year, 1953,
I sold 89% in one of these wells for $1.75 million, end quote, testified oil Tejon field
ranch owner Horace Steele, quote, I drilled two wells on my own initiative after Mr. Gabauer told
me not to. On the basis of surveys taken by his machine, both of these wells turned out dry.
I paid Gabauer $10,000 for the complete survey. It was worth every penny, end quote. Mind you,
according to court records, JP Kahn was on the sideline assisting every step of the way with
the prosecution of Gabauer and Newton. In a rather bizarre twist on 18 December 1953, prosecution
called Thor Severson, a Denver Post reporter. Severson had attended Newton's March 1953
university lecture on flying saucers. According to court records, Severson showed a now famous
photograph displaying Scully, Newton, and George Kohler and claimed without evidence this meeting
conspiratorially discussed oil detecting devices. The confusing trial of Newton and Gabauer eventually
came to an end. The two were found guilty of fraud and faced up to 30 years in prison, but
the case evaporated. The men were never sentenced and faced no fines. Curiously, Newton agreed to
pay a sum of $18,000 to cover court costs, as though this was a civil case, not criminal prosecution.
But the damage was done. The Aztec story was officially dead and buried. Kahn's conquest
of vengeance had been successful. Even though upon his passing, manager of Kahn's estate,
Robert McClay, produced cover art for Kahn's attempts to push more flying saucer stories in
the 1960s. With the facts of this case, one must ask why were Newton and Gabauer even charged?
Scott and Suzanne Ramsey argue this court case was punishment to Newton for introducing Dr.
G to Scully, wasting Newton's time delivering him stress and draining him of tremendous amounts of
money. Closer to modern day, many who disclose information on UFO crash retrievals or alien
reproduction vehicles face similar reprisals. These include Jonathan Weigant and Mark McCandelish,
both of whom were craftily targeted by the IRS after their disclosures.
Now after that entire long-winded court case section, and before we move on, we must discuss a
never-finished autobiography dated 1954 written by Newton and found within the Scully archive by
Scott and Suzanne Ramsey. Quickly, let's recap what we know about Newton. Newton was born 19 July
1897 and earned a bachelor degree at Baylor, studied at Yale, and performed postgraduate work
at the University of Berlin. Newton became a successful oil entrepreneur because of his
background as a geophysicist who studied petroleum under the earth. The oil man's relationships
would lead him to connect with Leo Gabauer and Dr. G, where Newton both likely heard about the Aztec
crash and prototype oil-fighting devices. Newton would disclose data of the crash alongside Dr. G
to Frank Scully and even take the place of a lecturer at the University of Denver in 1950.
Newton is also a convicted, but never sentenced con man, and as we discussed, there is more than
meet the eye to his court case. But what did Newton have to write about himself? Within the
manuscript, Newton wrote openly about his friendship with Gabauer and did in fact have a business
deal that went south with Denver businessman Herman Flater. Newton saw his University of Denver
lecture as the focal point of his entire story. Indeed, the manuscript shows Newton had a deep
fascination of magnetics and displayed both an admirable effort to understand the history of
magnetism as well as strong conviction flying saucers did indeed operate off of magnetic principles.
Again, Newton recounted how he originally was not supposed to speak at this lecture.
One of the quote-unquote men of science, likely comprising Dr. G, was to be the lecturer.
quote, some four years ago, I dared to stand before an audience in a so-called hall of learning
and tell a packed body of students a story I had heard about a phenomenon on which
are guardians of space. The Air Force, together with the Air Force of Canada and Great Britain
and other nations, have spent millions trying to identify what they term unidentified aerial
objects. They also call it quote-unquote project blue book to give it a proper cloak of mystery
here in the USA, end quote. Newton defiantly stated regarding the lecture quote,
as to my talk, it wasn't long before the finger of prosecution began pointing my way
and they've scorched my hide already, but I haven't recanted, end quote.
And while on the subject, a quick note here is well worth referencing. In the 1970s, UFO
investigator and former CIA officer Carl Flock claimed to have obtained a diary kept by Silas Newton.
This diary allegedly discussed Newton revealing that in the early 1950s,
he was contacted by US military officials who wished to speak to him about Aztec.
Newton was told the military knew the Aztec story to be bogus. However, they still wished him to
spread the story far and wide to whoever would listen. Flock never produced this diary and after
unrelenting pursuit by Scott Ramsey, admitted his source for this diary was Newton's nephew.
Now, Newton's sons were both still alive at this time, so one might ask why Newton's nephew would
be in possession of the diary. But nevertheless, Flock never produced material evidence of these
statements. But back to Newton's manuscript, Silas recalled his tarring and feathering with a
rather melancholic tone, writing quote, when the day comes and one of the silent invaders of our
skies sets down and we are greeted by the people of another planet. I'm wondering if they too will
be stoned in the marketplace. Me thinks they already know our ways and ere they do visit us,
they'll be in a position to protect themselves against our gangster methods and our shoot first
and investigate afterwards system, end quote. In the manuscript, Newton would discuss how
Canadian radio engineer Wilbur B Smith had his complete and unwavering admiration for studying
saucer magnetic propulsion. And this revelation is enormous and we will soon relate it to Sarbacher.
Newton's fascination with magnetics makes perfect sense when we piece together that likely before
World War Two, Newton knew select oil and gas scientists who went into top secret work for
Vannevar Bush during World War Two. These scientists, as we will discuss soon, would have been an
ideal team to study downed UFO saucers found during 1947 to 1950 and Newton would have
likely stayed in touch with them to assist in the development of magnetic anomaly detection devices
or MADS that were then and still are called doodle bugs and possibly receive first hand
information on UFO crash retrievals along the way. Indeed, according to the Aztec UFO incident,
a separate 1950 wire recording archived at the University of Washington saw Newton speak of
doing magnetic research in the Mojave Desert with a top magnetic scientist in 1949. In this
recording, Newton recalled mentioning reading about flying saucers to the scientist, to which
the scientist retorted that he had driven from Denver to Phoenix and when he drove past New
Mexico, he thought he wished Silas Newton was there so he could show Newton where the saucer
had landed. According to Newton, the scientist recalled the Rocky Plateau northeast of Aztec
and how they, the scientists in the military, had arrived from Durango, Colorado. Miraculously,
I do believe I have found this exact wire, or one similar recorded three March 1950,
so let's listen to Silas himself. In the summer of 1949, while engaged in
magnetic research in the Mojave Desert in California,
I was driving one day with one of my associates who happens to be rated the top
magnetic scientist of the United States. In conversation with this gentleman,
I had occasion to mention a report about flying saucers. I said,
Dr, do you happen to know anything about them? His answer was starting. He said to me,
he said, I thought about you last week when I came down from Denver to Phoenix.
When I passed Aztec, New Mexico, I said to my wife, I wish Silas was here,
because I would take him out and show him where the first flying saucer landed
in the United States. I said, Dr, do you mean to tell me that one of these ships landed
and that the American people don't know anything about it?
He said, two telescopes saw this flying saucer or an unidentified ship, and
they watched its position on the telescope and estimated approximately where it would land.
Within two to three hours after the landing, our force officials reached the flying field
at Durango and took off in their search for this object. When they found it, it was in a
very rocky, high plateau territory about 16 miles east of Aztec, New Mexico.
They immediately threw a guard around it, and about seven of our magnetic group of scientists
were called in to examine this strange ship. Now, before we move on, I leave you with this
powerful quote on page 228 from Newton's manuscript.
I have, however, not only been libeled and lied about, but I have been pictured as the deliberate
author of the whole idea. And to follow it up, the same people who defamed me in print
then framed up a prosecution that even at this hour seems to me like some horrible nightmare
from which I will awaken in time. The Ramses and myself share the sentiment the trial of Newton
was targeted retaliation for leaking information about the Aztec case. William Steinman presents
a far more dramatic and consequential reason for the court case of Newton and Gebauer. These
conclusions will also lead us to discuss in depth the doodle bug, which may just be the
linchpin of the whole case, tying in together Aztec, Mr. G, Newton, Scholle, Gebauer, and possibly
the Majestic Twelve. Recall how Steinman's investigation and sources led him to conclude
Dr. Carl A. Highland was not only one of the real Mr. G's, but also an MJ-12 member and
first-hand participant of the Aztec UFO crash. Dr. Carl Highland owned the Highland Research
and Exploration Company based in Denver, Colorado. Steinman claims Highland's business was quite
familiar with devices used for detecting oil wells and water, and that Gebauer had even
consulted with Highland's company. Steinman's theory goes Highland and Gebauer sought ways to
test modified and developed magnetic aerial detection equipment from World War II, anti-summering
programs, and thus the two engaged with oil man Silas Newton. In fact, Steinman argued Highland
and Gebauer were not only acquaintances, but also research compatriots. In his book, Steinman and
Furs, Gebauer, and Highland worked and lived together in 1935 in Antarctica for a US government
research project. According to the researcher, the two would later be involved with top secret
development of magnetic aerial detection, anti-summering technology, and then post-war,
adapt such technology back to underground oil, gas, water, and or other detection.
I should, however, note that Steinman does not offer exhibits of evidence or context around
these statements, so while I have no reason to doubt him here, we still cannot prove Highland
and Gebauer 100% worked and lived alongside one another. Furthermore, Steinman would also claim
Gebauer worked at the Phoenix and Los Angeles Division of Air Research Company. Recall how
Air Research Company and its founder, Dr. Paul Sherer, a colleague of Vannevar Bush and member
of the Research and Development Board, was allegedly called to action to provide freezing
equipment to preserve the Aztec bodies. Another interesting connection that I find
little to back up, however, it should be mentioned the Ramses additionally stated
Gebauer had served high positions within the Air Research Laboratories around 1946,
according to Better Business Bureau records. But back to Highland, Highland was involved in
early uses of the magnetometer for both geophysical exploration purposes and for detecting
submarines during World War II. Steinman argued Highland was the initial source of the Aztec leak,
disclosing information, photographs, materials, etc. to Newton and Gebauer.
When the Majestic 12 or whatever UFO legacy program entity was controlling dissemination
of information around this time found out, Highland was forced to withdraw from the March 1950
University of Denver lecture where scientist X, Silas Newton, took his place.
Highland explained to his visitor that he could not do so with a clear conscience
and look Gebauer in the eye knowing that they had both developed these devices together.
This ultimately, according to the theory, led to Dr. James Meredith, a co-worker of Highland at
the Colorado School of Mines Geophysics Department, to testify against Gebauer with fraudulent devices.
Recall how Steinman connected the doodle bug with World War II submarine detecting equipment.
This is where our story gets incredibly strange and perhaps there is more to the
inappropriately named doodle bug than meets the eye. Remember, several witnesses testified in
support of Gebauer and Newton that their device was indeed successful at finding oil or water
deposits. Gebauer's device, if real, may have been an early iteration of a magnetic anomaly
detection device or MAD and this device, like Steinman proposed, could have connected Gebauer
and Newton to the Aztec saucer. Newton and Gebauer, as stated in Newton's never-finished autobiography,
were familiar with scientists before the Second World War who were working on finding oil-finding
devices that transitioned to work under Vannevar Bush for secretive submarine detection missions
in both theaters of World War II. After all, according to Scully, the Dr. G scientists were
quote unquote top shelf and worked on secretive projects during the Second World War. Scully
additionally labeled some of the Dr. Gs as working out the means by which Japanese submarines were
detected by magnetic devices. So let's really pull on this thread here. In 1930, a company was
founded by Dr. J. Clarence Karcher and Eugene McDermott called Geophysical Services Inc. quote,
Karcher was an American geophysicist and businessman who invented the reflection Seismograph applying
for patents in 1919. He eventually commercialized the process by which most of the world's oil
reserves were discovered. McDermott was a geophysicist and pioneer of providing seismic services to the
petroleum industry. The original GSI was founded in 1930 to offer the first ever reflection Seismograph
exploration services to the oil industry, end quote. In 1917, when John Karcher revealed his
formula for calculating the depth of subsurface formations, he knew he had developed something
very important. His discovery led to a plan for someday using seismic waves to map structures
far below the earth's surface. The oil producing world would come to know the reflection Seismograph
as the instrument which fulfilled that plan. I do not think it is any stretch here to assume
GSI sought prolific and successful oil men in the American Southwest like Silas Newton to test
their groundbreaking products. By 1939, the founders of GSI started another company which
acted as GSI's parent company called the Colorado Corporation. The purpose here was to keep GSI in
the reflection Seismograph business exploring oil and gas whilst the Colorado Corps could continue
to branch into new ventures. By 1941, Eugene McDermott along with several key employees purchased GSI
from Colorado Corp. Immediately following the attack on Pearl Harbor, GSI and the reflection
seismograph technologies were recruited to secretive projects for anti-summarine warfare.
The National Defense Research Council was setting up the organizations through which university
and industry people were to be pulled together to tackle specific jobs in technology and design
for the war effort. GSI had a hidden asset, its long experience in building sophisticated
electronic equipment for its own use. This experience and Johnson's frequent trips to
Washington led to some engineering and development tasks for the Army Signal Corps
and a contract for airborne magnetic submarine detectors for the Navy.
By 1942, GSI had become a DOD contractor in Navy war production engineering, specifically focused
on using their technology for submarine detection. GSI was recruited by the Office of Scientific
Research and Development, an office set up by the US government during World War II to quote,
engage the brightest scientific minds and the great machinery of industry in the pursuit of victory
and quote, the head of this OSRD was of course accused MJ1 and lead scientist for the Aztec crash,
Dr. Vannevar Bush. Working under Vannevar Bush, the OSRD and Navy War Department, GSI was divided
into four groups, the Laboratory Manufacturing Division, Apparatus Division, Equipment Group,
and Defense Systems and Electronics Group, aka DSEG. So hold on here and let's get this straight.
GSI was developing oil detecting devices used possibly by Silas M. Newton before being recruited
in World War II by Dr. Vannevar Bush and the OSRD in order to adapt their technology for
anti-submarine programs. This ties in perfectly to the statements made by Steinman and Scully
in their publishing. But that's not all here and far from it. GSI would later on in 1951 become
Texas Instruments, a contractor accused of housing UFO legacy program operations.
It is comical to me how Texas Instruments themselves refer to legendary GSI geophysicists,
geologists, engineers, scientists, and others who performed seismic survey tasks as doodlebuggers.
But as GSI sounds like a perfect corporation that fits the description of the workplace of one,
if not multiple Mr. G's, are there any former GSI employees that really fit our conditions?
One possible source of Dr. G was GSI co-founder Eugene McDermott. McDermott was a luminary and
genius, himself registering five of the early GSI patents that greatly earned the respect of
Vannevar Bush. If Bush did indeed spearhead the Aztec retrieval, a trusted and respected genius
like McDermott would make an obvious candidate for a scientist on the team. McDermott was active
with GSI since its inception in the 1930s, when GSI was largely working with oil and gas detection,
possibly working in allowing Newton and Gebauer to test their technologies.
McDermott was revered by his employees, such as Cecil Green, who would go on to serve as
president and chairman when GSI became Texas Instruments. In a comical statement relevant
to the subject of UFOs, according to Green, McDermott had extreme skills in reverse engineering
almost anything he was given. The co-founder of GSI, J. Clarence Karcher, makes an additional
possibility for a Mr. G, as he originally applied for patents in reflection seismology in 1921.
According to an engraved monument, quote, proved the validity of the reflection seismograph as a
useful tool in the search for oil, end quote. While not directly an employee of GSI, we have
already discussed Carl Highland and how he possibly leaked the Aztec story to his compatriot,
Leo Gebauer. Additionally, outside, but possibly tangential to GSI, we have two Mr. Gs of interest,
Otto German Arnold Schmidt and John Tarrant's Tate. Schmidt was an accomplished expert of
biophysics, bioengineering, electrical engineering, and magnetism. In 1937, Schmidt
even performed research at the Woods Hole Marine Biological Laboratory, which I have previously
connected to undersea UFO crash retrievals. By March 1941, Schmidt was appointed by Dr.
Vannevar Bush as the official investigator for the National Defense Research Committee, or NDRC.
Shortly after, the NDRC evolved into Bush's famous OSRD, or the Office of Scientific Research
and Development. As we discussed with GSI, the role of OSRD in World War II was clearly defined,
a hard military focus helmed by Dr. Vannevar Bush. Schmidt would join John Tarrant's Tate
retrofitting PBY Catalina amphibious bombers with magnetic detecting equipment known as MAD,
Magnetic Anomaly Detector, later referred to as Magnetic Airborne Detector Device.
As we mentioned earlier, Gubauer's device could have possibly existed as early iterations of the
Magnetic Anomaly Detector. However, conclusions drawn by the fantastic research of the Ramses
point specifically to John Tarrant's Tate as a likely Mr. G, quote,
he had more degrees than a thermometer and had received them from such diverse institutions
as the Armour Institute, Creighton University, and the University of Berlin, he is the scientist
I have called Dr. G, end quote. Frank Scully when discussing one of the scientists known as Dr. G,
Tate earned his master's degree in physics and electrical engineering at the University of Omaha,
nestled in Nebraska alongside Creighton University, and earned his doctorate at the University of Berlin.
During World War I, quote, Tate and his colleagues verified the existence of discrete energy levels
and showed that there was a difference in the amount of energy required to spur radiation
and the amount of energy that is needed for ionization. This helped connect
Bohr's theory and those of Heisenberg and Schrdinger in quantum mechanics, end quote.
During the Second World War, Tate was recruited by Vannevar Bush to work for anti-summering
programs with the NDRC, which would later on become the OSRD. Tate would enjoy prestigious
positions during the war, including scientific advisor for the Commander-in-Chief, U.S. Fleet,
Assistant Chief of the Office of Field Services of OSRD, and the Director of Operations, Research,
and Chief Member of the Rocket Ordnance Division and National Defense Research Committee.
In July of 2011, Scott and Suzanne Ramsey traveled to the University of Minnesota and Minneapolis
to study archival material on Tate's life and work. Here they found evidence Tate had
actually traveled to the Southwest at the time of Aztec. Quote, in front of a large audience,
Tate stated that during a recent trip, he had experienced something that had changed his life.
According to him, what he had seen could change the way that energy is generated,
how food is produced, and overall how humanity could be served. This was a complete reversal
of his normal retiring attitude, end quote. From Highland to Tate and Dr. G's relation to Newton
and Gebauer, this chapter has served to attempt to unveil at least some of the nebulous Dr. G,
and also demonstrate Gebauer's doodle bug was not a fanciful object bought for $4.45 at a surplus
store, but instead based on real technology from real scientists, many of whom were connected with
geophysical services Inc. that would bridge the technology for submarine detection equipment
in World War II and foster close relationships with Vannevar Bush.
Thus far, we have discussed the Aztec crash, according to our primary sources,
outlined at the start of this project. I do want to spend a little bit of time
narrowing in on some of the work Steinman did in his 1986 epic UFO crash at Aztec,
a well kept secret. This enormous book only saw 1,000 copies printed, and as I stated at
the beginning of this project, I have purchased a copy for high quality scans for this video.
In his book, Steinman revolutionized the Aztec case by mentioning the IPU, MJ-12, and actually
identifying the team of scientists he claimed were present for the crash recovery, including
Vannevar Bush, Von Neumann, Highland, etc. Now, as much as I love this book and want to praise it,
Steinman remained throughout the book, somewhat cagey about his sources and origins of information.
Examples include definitive mention Leo Gebauer and Highland worked alongside one another without
evidence, an involvement of the IPU without firmly stating his sourcing or rationale.
So, as we have been doing, we must try and draw our own parallels and conclusions based upon the
research presented. Steinman became intrigued with behind the flying saucers after he once
read about the Aztec case in Stringfield's UFO crash retrieval status reports 1 through 7.
The researcher wrote his epic based upon the foundation the Aztec crash was true,
but started back at square one to derive his own sources and methods.
Viewers of my channel know I reference often and hold a great deal of respect for Steinman,
a true researcher who admirably cold-contacted many figures associated with UFO legacy programs
and crash retrievals. The case portrayed by Steinman is remarkably similar to the case discussed by
Scully, Newton, and several Aztec witnesses completely disconnected from the original
Aztec reporting crew. So, no, Sean Kirkpatrick, there is no circular reporting here.
The major difference in Steinman's reporting is how access was gained to the craft. Thus far,
we have heard different testimony of oil field workers to the recovery team exploiting an existing
hole in one of the craft's portholes to open a doorway in the vehicle. Steinman's account
states one of the accredited scientists on site observed a knob-shaped protrusion with a button
in the middle through one of the craft portholes. The unnamed scientist thus ordered for the team
to pick up hammers and beat the porthole glass out. Then we return to what we have heard already,
where the team used a long pole to poke around in the craft and eventually open it.
Intriguing to me in this passage here is Steinman's reporting Bush's team attempted
myriad solutions to disassemble the enormous craft for removal, cutting torches,
diamond drills, diamond cutting saws, and more. But no device would face the metal,
let alone penetrate the material.
Quote, finally, one scientist after a very thorough examination found a place on the inside
where there was some sort of interlocking key device. When he pulled on the device,
a seam opened up on the ship at that particular location from top to bottom.
He continued around the ship and found several of these devices at equally spaced intervals.
Here was the key to disassembly problem that they had been looking for, end quote.
Again, I am strongly reminded of the words of director of naval intelligence and BDM
board member Sumner Shapiro. In his work, Steinman professed to contain knowledge of personnel,
brought in to study the craft over a year after its recovery. But unfortunately,
he did not detail where and how he obtained this data, but it is, nevertheless,
worth our time to study. Steinman stated, a little over a year and a half after the recovery,
November of 1949 to be exact, Dr. Eric Henry Wayne was called onto the project.
Now, does this name sound familiar to anyone?
Wayne worked as a consultant to the Wright Air Development Center on Aerodynamic
Metallurgical Design for the Structure Division and served on the staff for the University of
Cincinnati. Wayne was also one of the key scientific figures mentioned along the 1953
Kingman, Arizona crash retrieval. I previously made a video on Kingman, one of my all-time favorite
crash retrieval events, and of course, Wayne was mentioned. You know, David gave them first-hand
direct information from his sources of where to look, where to find the spacecraft, where to
literally go and open the door. Oh, by the way, there's a spacecraft recovered from Aztec. Open
this door, oh yeah, that's the one from Kingman. If Wayne really was involved with Aztec, perhaps
his efforts to understand the craft were indeed successful. Seen as during Kingman, while spearheading
the Office of Special Studies at Wright-Patterson Airfield, Wayne was suspected of leading the
reverse engineering team on the crashed non-human craft. As I said in my Kingman video, which still
holds true, Wayne has proved exceedingly difficult to track down, almost as if he was erased from
public record. All I can prove with Wayne is that he was indeed the head of the Office of Special
Studies at Wright-Patt and involved with Operation Upshot Knot-Hole. The nuclear test
thought to have been the impetus of the Kingman's craft's crash. All the way back in 1986, Steinman
understandably found difficulty digging up info on Wayne, thus believing the Majestic 12
wished to keep their prize scientist off public record. Steinman was able to wrangle up tiny
references to Wayne, his obituary for example, in the April 1961 edition of Mechanical Engineering
Magazine. The obituary shed more light on this enigmatic figure possibly connected to
Aztec and Kingman. Wayne hailed from Austria and after earning his degrees in teaching in Cincinnati,
Ohio, Wayne began work on secret government projects in 1949 at Wright Development Center.
In 1956, Wayne's department was moved to Sandia Laboratory Complex at Kirtland Air Force Base,
where he remained until his death. Remember, Sandia and Kirtland are two of the most critical
names in my research on UFO legacy program operation locations. Admirably, Steinman
contacted an individual in Albuquerque who knew Wayne very well. The individual was mentioned
only by the name MW. MW stated Wayne's personal papers were all confiscated by military
intelligence upon his death, placed behind lock and key of a highly secretive section
of the library at Kirtland Air Force Base. Wishing to discuss saucers off a line that
was likely being tampered with, Steinman and MW planned to exchange letters. Steinman never
heard back from MW, but did notice his mail being tampered with and a tracking device stuck to his
van. Unfortunately, the enigma that is Dr. Eric Wang persists today. Who was Wang? Was he called
in to assist with the Aztec crash in regards to study and duplication, and did he spearhead the
1953 Kingman crash recovery?
Historically, the Aztec case has rested solely on the credibility of Silas Newton. Since he
is a convicted conman, though the story is not that simple, the whole case has been labeled
by publications such as the ever-reliable Wikipedia as a hoax. But are there eyewitnesses
to the crash? Are there individuals who saw the disc, touched the disc, or perhaps participated
in the retrieval first hand? Well, thanks to the tireless work of Steinman and the Ramses,
yes indeed, we do. And let's briefly explore a few here.
Valentin Archuleta initially disclosed his testimony to William Steinman in 1982 under the pseudonym
VA. Archuleta served in World War II and was deployed to the harrowing eastern theater in the
Philippines. Archuleta was captured, but miraculously survived the horrific Japanese POW camps.
After the war, Archuleta served as a rancher in Aztec, New Mexico.
Valentin claimed early one morning between 1948 to 1950, he was outperforming his usual chores.
The rancher heard a large explosion. Looking in the direction of the sound,
Archuleta observed a huge disc-shaped craft, larger than his house, with a dome on top,
passed within 200 yards of him overhead. This disc appeared to be in trouble, skimming as low as
100 feet over the ground and wobbled as it careened overhead.
Valentin described the disc striking the corner of a 150-foot cliff face,
shooting sparks and rocks in every direction. The Ramses have sought and believed to have
found this location. Archuleta proceeded to call the military in Albuquerque,
aka Kirtland Air Force Base, a base I have on myriad occasions associated with UFO crash
retrieval operations. Valentin requested the Air Force call him back to explain what was happening,
but was never contacted again. Now, paramount to the whole Aztec story is, of course, oil. Recall,
all the way back to the beginning of this video when we described the event,
oil workers were some of the first civilians on scene. In 1948, 19-year-old Doug Nolan worked
for the El Paso Oil Company. Early one morning, Nolan was on his way to pick up his supervisor
Bill Ferguson to proceed to a grueling day of work in the oil field south of Aztec.
Bill and form Doug, a brush fire, had started on Hart Canyon Road,
12 miles northeast of Aztec. Since this fire was supposedly burning near some of the company's
oil drip tanks, the two dispatched towards the area. Arriving to the tanks, Bill and Doug were
greeted by several other oil workers already on scene to investigate. The two were told something
strange was sitting atop the hill. Quote, the craft was extremely large. We realized the craft
was smooth with no noticeable seams, rivets, bolts, or weld marks. It looked as if it was molded.
The craft was brushed aluminum, looking to be very smooth, but not highly polished aluminum,
like you would see on an airplane, end quote. Doug and the other men climbed atop the craft,
resting at an angle on the mesa, looking for some sort of entry point. The men found a small
porthole type feature atop the dome, quote, the windows or portholes looked like mirrors until
you would get closer, then you could see right through them, end quote. Just as the Aztec story
goes, Doug stated one porthole featured a hole no bigger than the size of a quarter. Inside the craft,
Doug would claim to see two bodies, quote, slumped over what appeared to be a control panel of sorts,
end quote. Quote, by the time the local law enforcement showed up, Bill, who was ignoring
the orders to stay away from the craft, was trying to poke around the craft with a firepull or
something he pulled off one of the trucks. Soon, he hit something, and a door or walkway appeared.
Some of us had to look inside and see what else was in there, and if anyone was in need of help,
end quote. The small bodies inside were charred a dark brown, likely burned to a crisp,
but the craft's interior was undamaged. Doug described the disc as 100 feet across,
describing the craft as having a very thin cross section, only 18 to 20 feet high and very thin
at the edges. Doug did describe some strange markings on the outer edge of the craft.
Gold color rings, three if I remember correctly, that ran around the entire outer edge of the disc,
end quote. Quite a number of locals began to arrive to the scene, according to Nolan,
including cattle ranchers Mr. and Mrs. Knight, who warned the oil workers to get away from the disc.
Doug's testimony recounts the circling of a helicopter overhead, which stood out to him
almost as bizarrely as the disc. A law enforcement officer, now identified as Manuel Sandoval from
the nearby Cuba, New Mexico, arrived on scene, claiming he had followed the low-flying disc
in a northerly direction. Similar to Archuleta, Sandoval described seeing the craft as wobbly
and fluttering like a leaf. The policeman quickly took initiative, ordering locals off the craft.
More men, including a local officer, pulled to the scene, who informed Sandoval the military
was well aware of the craft and that everybody should leave the area at once.
The military eventually showed up, in Doug's words, in a very big way. Doug was impressed with
how fast the uniformed men showed to scene. He was unaware if the men were USAF or ARMY,
as the two were recently separated, but their vehicles did, according to Doug, look ARMY.
Now, these men were not young guys, according to Doug's eyes. They appeared seasoned,
assertive, and well-trained, possibly IPU, if Steinman's theories are correct.
The military on scene quickly assembled everyone present and divided the people for
interview. The uniformed men told Doug and presumably others, quote,
This event was extremely important to the United States, that we were responsible for our national
security and that we will never talk to anyone about this event, end quote.
Other eyewitnesses described almost identical crash sites to Scott Ramsay.
These include Ken Farley, who while on his deathbed in 1999, disclosed to Ramsay,
Farley was visiting his aunt in Durango, Colorado, north of Aztec, and was on his way to Cedar Hill,
New Mexico, to see a friend the early morning of 25 March 1948. After his friend suggested they
check out a lot of activity on a nearby dirt road, the two drove to Hart Canyon Road.
Following the dust and dirt clouds from other cars, the two men got out and walked on top of the
mesa. The two men saw a huge object with people ranging from oil field workers to an older couple,
possibly the knights walking around the craft, quote. We saw a large disc shaped object,
aluminum in color, but not really very shiny, sort of dull aluminum. I could not see any
structures as far as doors or windows. The entire craft was very smooth. The craft did not appear
to have any damage, but lay on the mesa at a funny angle and sort of rested on its belly.
The disc had a bubble or protrusion on the bottom from what I can remember,
and also one on the top. It sort of reminded me of two pie pans with a bubble for a top and bottom.
The top bubble was larger than the bottom. The craft was lying at an angle, maybe 12 degrees or so,
end quote. Ken described the scene, two police officers on site, likely Sandoval and the local
officer, were asking folks to leave. Oil field workers were climbing all over the craft and
an old couple, again the knights, yelled at the men to get off. Shortly after, according to Ken,
disgruntled military personnel arrived whisking people off site. In a truly incredible turn of
events, the Ramses have located two Aztec witnesses on the side of the recovery efforts.
In 2001, Scott Ramsey interviewed a USAF veteran by the pseudonym George.
Ramsey states the identity of George was known by multiple researchers,
including the legendary Stanton Freedman. George claimed to be stationed as an airman
of the Walker Air Force Base in 1948. Formerly known as the infamous Roswell Army Airfield,
George claimed the Aztec retrieval was indeed coordinated out of Walker AFB.
Perfectly suited after Roswell Army Airfield had garnered experience retrieving non-human craft
solely eight months prior. George explained to Scott Ramsey the retrieval operation was
highly compartmentalized, with information restricted to a need-to-know basis concerning
the work to which each individual was assigned, similar to the Manhattan Project. George's
directive was to keep personnel records for everyone who was working the recovery.
Though he was not in the loop on everything, far from it in fact,
George claimed to see daily intelligence reports concerning progress made and people involved.
George stated the retrieval process took every part of two weeks.
Now, of course, if you've been paying attention, there is an issue here. If Dr.
Carl Highland was indeed present at Aztec, George failed his duties as the Ramses were able to
place Highland in the American Southwest at the time of Aztec. George recalled the Air Force based
out of Walker Air Force Base and Army Fifth Base out of Colorado as well as a few other select
basers or locations were involved in the crash. And recall how Steinman stated the U.S. Army
Interplanetary Phenomenon Unit arrived to the Aztec crash from Camp Hale, Colorado.
And while we're here, let's reference back to the U.S. Army CID slash FBI Sting Operation
conducted in 1950 to purchase Aztec crash photographs. Far removed from Newton, Scully,
or any of the main characters of the Aztec case, official memorandums discussing the Sting referenced
the Fifth Army Intelligence Division Regional Office being involved in receiving information
and interviewing witnesses surrounding the Sting. George claimed the personnel involved in the
recovery were highly trained and seasoned, similar to the IPU claims of Steinman and
eyewitness testimony of Doug Nolan. We can take this away from George's testimony.
The issues with the Roswell recovery led to Aztec featuring new people and new procedures,
and though George was not privy to policy, the Aztec proceedings were handled by highly
trained professionals. He had no direct knowledge, but George wagered the craft was taken to Los
Alamos. After the event, George noticed a tremendous amount of equipment at the then
Atomic Energy Commission lab, including flatbed and low-boy trucks. Interesting here, George also
claimed to see photos of the craft. As of course did Scully's wife, and as we know, elements of
the U.S. DOD and IC were interested in intercepting such images. Possibly paramount to our entire
investigation, Ramsay asked George if the Air Force was upset with Scully, who wrote the
first book on Aztec, and a bestseller at that. If George's account is true, this tremendously
strengthens the argument Newton and Gabbower were put through grueling trial as punishment for
leaking the story. Tangential to our story today, but just as Aztec was born from Scully's behind
the flying saucers, so too did the book give rise to the testimony of one of the most critically
overlooked characters in all of UFO lore, Dr. Robert Sarbacher. In 1950, Canadian government
senior radio engineer Wilbert B. Smith wrote to the Controller of Telecommunications
in the Department of Transport requesting for Canada to begin its first official investigation
into UFOs, specifically studying complex magnetism as a form of propulsion. This document was never
supposed to be public. The classification of this document was likely accidentally downgraded.
The document was classified top secret until 15 September 1969 and remained largely hidden until
UFO researchers Arthur Bray and Stanton Friedman obtained a copy in 1978. In this letter, Smith
made three astounding claims told to him by a source within Washington regarding UFOs.
1. The matter is the most highly classified subject in the United States government,
higher even than the H-bomb. 2. Flying saucers exist. 3. Their modus operandi is unknown,
but concentrated efforts are being made by a small group headed by Dr. Vannevar Bush.
4. The entire matter is considered by the United States authorities to be of tremendous significance.
Wilbert Smith, a man whom Silas Newton shared a tremendous amount of respect for, would go
on to spearhead Canada's first two UFO programs, Projects Magnet and Second Story.
3. Smith was possibly even exposed to technologies of unknown origin by U.S. government officials,
but of course, that is not our story today. The source of Wilbert B. Smith for this profound
memo, 1. Dr. Robert Sarbacher. Sarbacher served as a respected physicist and consultant to
Vannevar Bush's and the DoD's Research and Development Board in the 1950s under the Truman
administration. The esteemed Harvard graduate and student of Einstein served as the founder and
dean of Georgia Institute of Technology, director of research at WED Labs, scientific consultant
to the U.S. Marines and as mentioned earlier, involved in the Joint Research and Development
Board. Sarbacher's research specialized in remote-controlled rockets, though curiously,
Sarbacher has largely been wiped from the annals of history similar to Dr. Eric Henry Wang.
On 15 September 1950, Wilbert Smith interviewed Robert Sarbacher. Smith stated he had read
Scullies behind the flying saucers and wished to know how much of the book was fact,
to which Sarbacher replied, quote, the facts reported in the book are substantially correct,
end quote. The two would discuss magnetic propulsion systems behind UFOs before Smith's
source would inform Smith of the shocking points made in the 1950 memo. Beginning his research on
Aztec after being struck by behind-the-flying saucers, William Steinman quickly attempted to
track down Robert Sarbacher. The accomplished physicist stated he himself had no association
with any of the people involved with UFO crash recoveries and had no specifics on dates of
successful recoveries. However, Sarbacher had been invited to participate in several discussions
regarding recoveries whilst consulting with the R&D board but was never given access to personally
attend. Sarbacher still did attest meetings regarding UFO crash retrievals were held by
the Military Research and Development Board at Wright-Patterson Air Force Base and involved
figures such as John von Neumann, Vannevar Bush, and Dr. Robert Oppenheimer, three key
U.S. scientists and three figures linked to the Aztec crash. Though he did not receive
materials or photographs, Sarbacher had been privy to UFO crash reports during his official
Pentagon duties. In the direct words of Sarbacher, quote,
About the only thing I remember at this time is that certain materials reported to have come
from flying saucer crashes were extremely light and very tough. I am sure our laboratories
analyzed them very carefully. There were reports that instruments or people operating these machines
were also very lightweight, sufficient to withstand the tremendous deceleration and acceleration
associated with their machinery. I remember in talking with some of the people at the office
that I got the impression these quote unquote aliens were constructed like certain insects we've
observed on earth, wherein because of the low mass the inertial forces involved in operation of
these instruments would be quite low. I still do not know why the higher order of classification
has been given and why the denial of the existence of these devices, end quote.
Obviously, Sarbacher's described lightweight materials closely resemble the metals described
from the Roswell and Aztec wreckage. And we do, of course, have a possible paper trail of custody
here. As in my video on Battelle Memorial Institute, I discussed the contractor receiving pieces of the
Roswell wreckage to test on the now coveted material used in many industries such as aerospace and
medical, night and all. However, Sarbacher's description of biologics do somewhat differ here.
Certainly, the biologics described in Aztec and Roswell sound far more humanoid than insect,
but this could attest to the likelihood multiple non-human species have visited and crashed on
the planet. As we continue, I would strongly suggest reading the book by Grant Cameron,
UFOs Area 51 and Government Informants. On a future unknown date, Steinman would write to UFO
researcher Grant Cameron. The letter would discuss friend of Cameron and Steinman,
the legendary Stanton Freedman, had also tracked down Sarbacher in 1983. According to Sarbacher,
quote, I did not attend the meetings at right field concerning the recovered saucers,
but there was one person who attended all of the meetings. I can't remember his name.
He wrote a book on electrical engineering, was a member of the RDB, and was the head of the
electrical engineering department at a university in Pennsylvania, end quote. Based on this statement,
Steinman did some digging on his own volition and derived a name. Steinman received direct
confirmation of this name, another one of the most under discussed names in all of UFO lore
and usual of this channel, one Dr. Eric A. Walker. I'm sure he needs no introduction here,
but let's alongside Sarbacher discuss Dr. Eric A. Walker. The genius that was Dr. Walker was born
in 1910. He received his BS in engineering in 1932, MBA in 1933, and his DSC in 35,
all from Harvard University. In his early professional years, Walker would teach mathematics
and electrical engineering at Tufts College. Walker would then join the University of Connecticut,
where he taught electrical engineering and initiated courses for a special war training
program. It is widely thought that here is where Walker met Dr. Vannevar Bush and likely became
initiated into UFO programs. During the Second World War, the doctor would join the Underwater
Sound Laboratory at Harvard University, where he would quickly find himself in charge of
ordinance, specifically weapons. The accomplished scientist studies in Underwater Sound Lab led
to the creation of the homing torpedo, which shall Walker be awarded with the Naval Ordinance
Development Award and a Presidential Certificate of Merit. By 1944, Walker would join Vannevar
Bush's Office of Scientific Research and Development, and by 45, Walker would join Penn
State University, which he would later become president of. It was at Penn State, at the behest
of the Navy, Walker would create the Applied Research Laboratory, now a DOD-designated U.S. Navy
UARC, or University-affiliated Research Center. Now, I talk in extreme detail in most of my projects
about UARCs and their semi-private corporate counterparts, FFRDCs, Federally Funded Research
and Development Centers. Involvement in UFO legacy program operations, so, reference any of these
projects for more on that topic. Recall how Sarbacher set in 1950, as consultant to the
Defense Research Board, UFO crash retrieval meetings were held at Wright Patterson by the R&D Board
spearheaded by Vannevar Bush. While in that same year of 1950, Walker sat on the R&D Board and would
later go on to serve as its executive secretary from 1950 to 1952. Indeed, Stanton Friedman's
Sharp Eye uncovered an early 1950s document from the Department of the Army to chairman
of the U.S. Communications Intelligence Board, USCIB. The subject of this document is, quote,
indoctrination for special intelligence for Mr. Eric Arthur Walker, end quote.
Walker would go on to assist in many DOD and IC projects, including Project Azorian in 1972,
to recover the sunken Soviet submarine K-129 at the behest of the National Underwater Reconnaissance
Office. Now this is interesting, as I have directly connected the vessel used,
the Glomar Explorer, and the highly secretive Nuro to undersea UFO crash retrieval operations,
and I highly recommend viewing that project. Throughout the 1980s, the name Dr. Eric A.
Walker was kept secret by select UFO investigators, such as Stanton Friedman and William Steinman,
in hopes the doctor could be convinced to publicly disclose his involvement in UFO crash retrievals
and material exploitation programs. William Steinman first reached out to Dr. Walker on 19
March 1948. Walker's response was bizarre, to say the least. Dr. Walker typed on the lower portion
of Steinman's sent letter, and the doctor even cut off Steinman's return address and stamped it
on the front of his envelope, the correspondence read in all caps, quote, Stop. Don't try and
find me. I came on that machine, I will leave May 15, ergo, quiet, quiet, quiet, end quote.
Steinman would attempt to contact Walker again on 31 May 1984, with no response. But on 30 August
1987, the ever-persistent Steinman would call Walker, and to his surprise, Walker answered.
Straight to the punch, Steinman told Walker he wished to speak on meetings at Wright Patterson
in 49-50, concerning military recoveries of flying saucers and their occupants.
Just as shocking as Walker even answering the call, he would state, quote,
Yes, I attended meetings concerning that subject matter.
Why do you want to know about that? End quote.
In this 1987 conversation, Walker would reveal he knew of the Majestic 12, in fact,
he had for 40 years, so all the way back to 1947. Then gave Steinman a bizarre reference to Don
Quixote, quote, I believe that you're chasing after windmills and fighting with windmills.
Walker told Steinman the researchers' efforts were futile, but still the doctor would see
if he could wrangle up any of the 1950 Wright Patterson notes. But to this day, I have heard
nothing of these notes making their way to the public. Now, I know I'm spending a significant
amount of time on Walker and Sarbacher, but the fact behind the flying saucers containing the
Aztec story led to the discovery of two of the most critical and understudied individuals in the
subject is paramount to our investigation. Several UFO researchers would approach Walker
in the late 1980s, but few were able to speak with him.
In conversations with Henry Azad de Hel, aka Armin Victorian, Walker would reveal he was present
for the 1965 Kecksburg, Pennsylvania UFO crash retrieval, an all-time favorite case of mine.
Walker would tell Victorian, quote, Only a couple people are capable of handling this issue.
Unless your mind ability is like Einstein's or likewise, I do not think you can achieve
anything, end quote. Walker would even bring up ESP, extra sensory perception, stating, quote,
How good is your sixth sense? How much do you know about ESP,
unless you know about it and how to use it? You would not be taken in. Only a few know about it,
end quote. Believe it or not, we could spend another two hours here on Walker and cover
perplexing coded letters returned to Steinman, 1988 conversations with T. Scott Crane stating
Walker would no longer speak on UFOs and much more. What secrets could Walker have possibly
held onto regarding Aztec? My wager many as Walker joined the DRB one year following the incident, 1949.
Integral to Steinman's 1986 reconstruction of the Aztec retrieval is the interplanetary
phenomenon unit, or IPU, as we will call it from here on out. I have discussed the IPU many times
before, including speaking on the documents with Ryan Wood, who has served alongside his late father,
Dr. Robert Wood, as the premier researchers attempting to authenticate or disprove the
majestic 12 documents. Since the IPU is so integral to piecing together the retrieval,
let's spend some time reviewing the infamous interplanetary phenomenon unit.
Now frustratingly, Steinman never presented strong evidence for why IPU, stationed out of Camp Hale,
Colorado, was the on-site military team securing the craft and crash LZ, only reporting the word
from sources. Steinman was, however, one of the trailblazing researchers to prove the IPU's existence.
Like just about everything related to Majestic 12, or UFO crash retrievals, IPU is not without
controversy. Researchers such as Brad Sparks and Kevin Randall have professed quote-unquote
truth about the IPU, claiming this unit was no more than the input-processing unit of Army
Intelligence's later Army AFSTC, Foreign Science and Technology Center. Basically, IPU was the
incoming document's mailroom for Army S&T post-Sputnik in the 1968 Space Era.
Sparks claims the IP moniker has been misrepresented as interplanetary phenomenon because the real
unit to him did handle the receipt and forwarding of UFO reports. FOIA documents we will discuss
have labeled the IPU as existing through quote-unquote institutional memory. Sparks believe this is
because Army FOIA officers have simply misremembered around the IPU. Now, I find great fault in this
reporting and very little research of substance, but now that we have addressed the IPU counterpoints,
let's begin to dive in. We will primarily address the work of Robert and Ryan Wood,
as well as UFO researcher Anthony Bergalea here. Please check out their respective sites,
MajesticDocuments.com and UFOExplorations.com. In 1980, the late Richard Hall, Associate of
Mufon and NiCAP, filed a Freedom of Information Act request with the U.S. Army, requesting
information concerning Army Intelligence records relating to UFOs. It is unknown and debated if
Hall actually said the words interplanetary phenomenon unit in his FOIA letter. Hall was
advised by Colonel William Guild, Director of Army Counterintelligence, that quote,
please be advised that the interplanetary phenomenon unit of the Scientific and Technical
Branch Counterintelligence Directorate was disestablished in the late 1950s and never
reactivated. All records pertaining to this unit were surrendered to the U.S. Air Force Office of
Special Investigations with Operation Blue Book, end quote. Fast forwarding to 1984, we find Steinman
conducting similar FOIAs for IPU. Steinman was additionally told the IPU was disestablished
and all records were transferred to USAF in the late 1950s. According to Lieutenant Colonel
Lance Cornyn, the IPU was formed as an in-house project as an interest item for an Assistant
Chief of Staff for Intelligence. The IPU was never a unit or formally recognized mission
or authority, only through institutional memory did the Army CIC have any recollection of the IPU.
Let's fast forward again to 1987 to above top secret author Timothy Good, who filed similar FOIAs.
Good was given the exact same spiel as Steinman and Hall. Good was given the same spiel as Steinman
and Hall. So, what can we learn from these FOIAs? A. The Army confirmed with the Army
Department of Counterintelligence there was in fact an interplanetary phenomenon unit or IPU.
B. The IPU was disestablished in the late 1950s. C. The IPU records were quote-unquote
surrender to the Air Force in conjunction with Project Blue Book. D. The unit was a quote-unquote
in-house project as an interest item for an unnamed Assistant Chief of Staff for Intelligence.
E. The unit lacked formal function, mission, or authority. F. It is only through quote-unquote
institutional memory that the Army knows of the IPU's existence.
If IPU records were given over to Project Blue Book, why are there no records of IPU
in Blue Book's many reports? With the Army's response, it is clear there is recollection of
IPU, but the Army CIC is not forthcoming about information or records. Years later, Kufon,
or the computer UFO network, received a reply from AFOSI that IPU material had been destroyed,
but offered no further information. This contradicts Army reports the IPU maintained no
records. Some further intriguing breadcrumbs have been reported by Anthony Burgalia.
The Defense Central Index of Investigations, DCII, is a DOD Automated Control Index that
identifies and reports on investigations conducted by all DOD investigative agencies.
Essentially, this served as the most complex and comprehensive acknowledged military
and intelligence data center in existence. In the early 1980s, researcher John Frick
became aware of DCII computer printouts made under the command of the legendary general
Douglas MacArthur that related to UFO sightings and investigations. The first line of the short
quote, I have not seen this printout reproduced, but if real, fully destroys the IPU counterargument
proposed by Brad Sparks. Frick even stated some of his sources, such as the former AFOSI agent
Rudolph M. Schelmar, revealed that MacArthur's IPU files were indeed transferred in 1962 to AFOSI.
Perhaps IPU really did operate under MacArthur. After all, the general would discuss quote
unquote interplanetary war in 1955 and 1962 addresses. Remember here, Army FOIA stated
IPU was an interest item for a joint chief of staff for intelligence, aka a G2. MacArthur's G2
was Colonel Charles A. Willoughby, who later became chief of MacArthur's intelligence staff.
Willoughby also retired as a major general. Brigalia reported Willoughby was even equated
with the legendary Philip J. Corso. However, researchers such as Timothy Good suggest the
IPU did not operate directly under MacArthur, but by someone from even higher rank, MacArthur's
immediate superior, General George C. Marshall, Army chief of staff and later US Secretary of
Defense. George C. Marshall is additionally considered by the woods as the origin for the IPU
and remember William Steinman reported Marshall himself mobilized the IPU for the Aztec retrieval.
Now let's move into discussing the IPU as it appears throughout the majestic documents.
I'm going to skip over Thomas Cantwell, the enigmatic self-proclaimed IPU member who gave
several majestic document drops to Timothy Cooper. So if you want to learn more about him,
go watch my Majestic Documents investigation with Ryan Wood.
If you are wondering why I am mentioning majestic documents at all,
I additionally recommend watching that same piece. Within the majestic documents are two files
alleged to be records from the IPU themselves. The interplanetary phenomenon unit field order
dated July 1947, given to Tim Cooper by Cantwell via UPS between 1993 and 1996,
as well as the IPU report dated July 1947, given to Cooper from Cantwell personally in July of 1995.
Now the quote-unquote leak dates of these IPU documents should put to bed any theory
Steinman took the IPU reports at face value and constructed his Aztec case around the two documents.
Outside of the two alleged internal IPU documents, there are several majestic
documents that mention the IPU. These include a 5 March 1942 memo from George Marshall to
President Franklin D. Roosevelt discussing the recovery of an unidentified airplane following
the infamous 1942 Battle of Los Angeles. Marshall says in this disputed document,
the craft was likely of interplanetary origin and suggested a special intelligence unit be
created for further investigation of the phenomenon. But let's start here with the short
IPU field order dated July 4, 1947 and marked top secret. The one page memo directs a commanding
officer to take a counterintelligence team to a UFO crash site and report to the G2 at
Conrant Field, New Mexico, which is of course Roswell. The commanding officer was to take a
non-commission OIC, an aeronautical engineer, a scientist, a security officer, and a medical
doctor and to provide a report by the 28th of July. The IPU report, dated July 22, 1947,
gives us far more to work with and let's break this down a little bit as I have connected this
document to various crash retrievals in the past. The intelligence assessment references
recovery of multiple fallen objects from 4 to 6 July 1947. This possibly lends credence to Roswell
featuring multiple UFO crash retrievals. Now the document was prepared by the Army IPU, Scientific
and Technical Branch, Counterintelligence Directorate at the behest of G2, the exact same descriptors of
IPU given to 1980s researchers from FOIA. But to play devil's advocate, this document released
in 1995. So if it is a hoax, the authors of the hoax could have easily copied known IPU details
from researchers such as Steinman and Hall. What interests me here though is mention of
a special radiobiological team accompanied by an SED and security detail from Sandian
National Labs under orders from Colonel Hasbrook. Armed forces special weapons project being
ordered to secure the immediate area surrounding the Roswell crash site. Select scientists from
the Atomic Energy Commission were amongst this team, including Dr. J. Robert Oppenheimer,
father of the atomic bomb, an accused member of the Aztec crash by Steinman a little less than
one decade earlier. But that's not all. The IPU also stated Dr. Detlev Bronk was in charge of
biologic autopsies just as in the Aztec case. The document states President Truman would be given
a limited briefing on the incident by General Hoyt Vandenberg, but that General Eisenhower,
later president, would actually be shown the recovery of the wreckage. According to majestic
documents lore, the 1952 Eisenhower briefing document disclosed details of Roswell to Eisenhower.
If he had already been briefed by the IPU, why the double briefing? Well, this could be explained
as the illustrious MJ-12 was established according to the Eisenhower briefing document later in
September 1947, so the double briefing makes sense. The ties between Aztec, Roswell,
and Maj. 12 are indeed intriguing as the IPU report states George Marshall was the only cabinet member
to date to know about crashed UFOs, but that Secretary of Defense James Forstall would be
briefed on certain aspects. In Maj. 12 lore, Truman and Forstall engaged in September 1947
meetings to establish the Majestic-12. To learn more about Forstall and his untimely demise,
I also again recommend watching my Maj. 12 video. Just as in the Aztec case,
recovered craft were stored at Los Alamos and access was gate kept by one Lieutenant General
Collins. Now addressing point nine in the document here, I have connected this to the 1974 Koyama
Mexico UFO crash retrieval, a fascinating and scintillating case. According to the document,
Sandia Personnel suffered some sort of form of non-human containment breach, possibly hazardous
liquids or gas, and three technicians were killed. Ultimately here, the study of the IPU
does not lead us to any hard conclusions. The illustrious unit exists, but its memories and
records have been destroyed. I do find it utterly fascinating the sources of Steinman informed him,
Marshall, and the IPU helmed the Aztec recovery many years before the quote unquote leaks of
these documents. And although these Maj. 12 IPU documents released years after Steinman's research
are rightly disputed and we cannot lean on them for any definitive statements,
they paint striking parallels between the Roswell crash and Aztec crash just eight months later.
Like any good crash retrieval case before his passing, the legendary Leonard Stringfield wrote
about, connected with sources, and reported on Aztec. Viewers of my channel will absolutely
recognize I often celebrate Stringfield and his UFO crash retrieval status reports one through seven
as the best work on UFO crash retrieval operations period. Stringfield was approached by Steinman
in 1985 to write the foreword for the 1986 epic that is the ultra rare UFO crash at Aztec a well
kept secret. In his foreword, Stringfield wrote he was incredibly hesitant to re-engage with the
case. Stringfield admitted he too had been conditioned that the case was nothing more than
a hoax, schemed by Silas Newton and his dubious partner in crime, Leo Gabauer. Stringfield stated
he was equally initially swindled by debunks presented by William or Bill Moore at a Mouffon
symposium in 1985. Moore would around 1989 admit he was working with the US intelligence community
to sow disinformation into the subject of UFOs.
Steinman's convictions and thoroughness led to Stringfield re-engaging with the case,
but what history did he have with Aztec? Let's travel back to 1974 when Aztec had long been
labeled a hoax due to the sketchy reporting of JP Kahn. One John Spencer Carr, a retired South
Florida professor of mass communications at the University of South Florida Tampa,
went public with what he professed to be new information regarding the Aztec incident in
October of 1974. Fortunately, Steinman obtained clippings of Carr's testimony in an October
1974 Clearwater Sun issue. Carr stated he had in his possession what he deemed to be credible
information regarding Aztec, disclosed to him by five sources including a senior USAF official
involved in the retrieval. Carr claimed the craft and bodies of Aztec were flown to Edwards
Air Force Base and ultimately taken to Wright Patterson. Two locations I do strongly suspect
are engaged in UFO legacy program operations, but almost as soon as it was resurrected,
Aztec was once again demolished shortly after in 1975 in an article in official UFO by Mike
McKellen titled the UFO crash of 1948 is a hoax. Admittedly, Carr did seemingly report many of
the Aztec details incorrectly or was confusing Aztec with another case, claiming a crash date
of 12 February 48, claiming military men approached a 30 foot saucer with guns drawn and the presence
of 12 non-human bodies dead from decompression. In the interest of time, we will not cover Carr's
claims in McKellen's debunk as we did Newton and Kahn, but where does Stringfield fit in here?
Carr and Stringfield would speak extensively after Carr went public in 1974, but Carr would
never reveal his sources. On 6 February 1982, Carr, fearing his own mortality, would disclose
the name of his Air Force source to Stringfield in Leonard's own words, quote. When Professor
Carr named his source, I sat back dumbfounded. I knew his name well in research and recalled some of
the source's comments on UFOs while he served as an Air Force officer. But Carr was quick to tie
a string to his disclosure, stating please Len, keep the name to yourself, please spare me any
trouble as long as I live, end quote. Carr and ultimately Steinman would reignite Stringfield's
waning interest in Aztec and by 1989 in UFO crash retrieval status report five, Stringfield was writing
again about Aztec and mentioning the case in the same sentences as Roswell and Kingman,
two crashes I and many others place extreme confidence in. In 1991 status report six,
Stringfield would discuss and reproduce a fascinating new witness to the Aztec case.
Stringfield was given permission to reproduce the report on the crash at Farmington,
written in 1991 by Chuck Oldham. Oldham had in 1990 come in contact with an Aztec informant,
a former alleged military officer with high security clearances. And together,
the two published the witness's disclosures, as well as diagrams and images of the craft and
biologics. The witness described accessing classified files, discussing crashed alien craft
in their occupants. Within the files, the witness stumbled upon what was an image of a perfectly
intact circular shaped craft, lying tilted five to 10 degrees on one side on the ground in the
desert. The craft was metallic, appearing similar to brushed aluminum. There did not appear to be a
crater or ground surface disturbance caused by the impact. The report referenced to the image
and craft in great detail. The witness claimed the report listed the craft was retrieved near the
town of Farmington, New Mexico, just south of Aztec prior to 1950. The report stated, but the
witness was unable to confirm in the photographs that the dome part of the saucer featured porthole
type features, though they were not made of any glass. Just like the Aztec story goes,
one porthole had a puncture, the diameter of a pencil. The report listed the retrieval team tried
diamond drills, acetylene torches, and more on the porthole, but nothing was able to damage the
craft and porthole. This reminds me closely of the 1963 RB case I covered in UFO whistleblowers
volume two. And just like the rest of our Aztec testimonies, an accidental fiddling of the damaged
porthole led to the craft opening. One point here, though, is at odds with the rest of our
Aztec discussion. The witness claimed the craft was 30-something feet in diameter.
The beams inside, according to Oldham Source, were four foot tall humanoids,
badly charred, wearing a strong woven fabric flight suit. The report author concludes the craft
likely operated on magnetic or gravitational fields to travel great distances in a minuscule
amount of time.
Not so sure about the Aztec case. Since that time, there have been multiple individuals that I respect
quite a bit who have talked about this case and said there's a little more than meets the eye than
the JP Kahn debunk. Of course, with Ross Goldhardt on Jesse Michael saying, Nat Kobitz
directly or strongly inferred or directly told him that the Aztec case was real,
I thought, well, now might be the time to dive in and give this case a fair shake as possible.
If you're like me and arrive at similar conclusions, I do wager that this case likely
happened and I do wager it's a very complicated case. Similar to Roswell, we might be confusing
details of multiple cases. With the UFO report, the crash at Farmington and some other witness
testimony, specifically Professor Carr, multiple individuals talk about a 30-plus foot saucer
crashing and not a 99.9 diameter disc. Maybe there's some details getting confused here,
but believe it or not, and I know I say this in every video, I think this project really
only scratches the surface of Aztec. Remember how much time we devoted to
IPU? Well, as it turns out, there's even more majestic documents. I don't know if you can see
it on the camera right here that involve Aztec. Now, why did I not include this right here?
This 45-page, I think it's a DIA majestic document that Ryan and Robert Wood have not even discussed
very long. Well, this is because this document drop came out in 2017 through a radio show host
from a trusted source. I can't remember the woman's name right now. I believe it's her first name,
Heather. But I would like to get in contact with her to find out who this trusted source is. Of
course, a majestic documents drop in 2017 is decades beyond when the majority of documents drop
between 1984 and 1996, let's say. So I'm quite intrigued why this specific set of documents
was leaked in 2017, a very critical date in UFO lore. But the reason I didn't speak about this is
because this document says some pretty bizarre things, pretty outlandish things specifically
about Nikola Tesla. It reads almost like a novel. It's a really good read, which is
kind of why I take apprehension here. But also because this majestic document, again,
I'll put it right up here and I'll put the link in the video description,
pretty much tells the Aztec case verbatim in the same style of story as Steinman.
So it talks about IPU. It talks about all the recovery methods Steinman talks about. So
one of my preliminary theories here is that this document drop, of course, as soon as a ton of
interest starts back up in UFOs around 2017, quite possibly this document drop was meant to muddy
the water surrounding the Aztec case. And maybe by recovering Steinman's account of the case that
it just means, hey, Steinman could have ripped this off a random majestic document that existed
way back in the day. So that's why I didn't include this. And speaking of Steinman and
majestic documents, you know, the IPU report and field order dropped in 1995 in 1996, I believe
are the dates off the top of my head. Now, one of the things I grappled with back and forth is,
did Steinman have a previous experience with these documents? And he constructed his Aztec case
based upon the IPU report specifically, because as we know, General George Marshall, others,
the IPU, the Sandia, Los Alamos are mentioned within that document. But I, and perhaps there
could be creams here, because the same thing with Dr. Eric Walker, Steinman did keep his name secret
for quite a few years and hope that, you know, Walker would speak out, perhaps there's a world
in which that majestic document was released to some researchers back in the 80s, the IPU reports.
And it was kept a little secret until Thomas Cantwheel gave the documents to Timothy Cooper
back in 1996, I believe the IPU report was. But I digress, there's nothing to substantiate that
theories, but it is interesting nonetheless. And again, this ultra top secret majestic report
from the DIA comes out in 2017, telling the Steinman account of Aztec verbatim. So,
I'm not quite sure what to do with this document. Perhaps I'll make a majestic documents follow
up part two where we can analyze some of the more controversial documents,
project Aquarius, maybe this document and some others. So maybe we'll do that in the future.
But I'd like to know what you guys think about this video. I mean, I'll tell you what right now.
I don't think I've ever said the word doodle bug so much in my life. It was pretty tough
recording the script, trying to talk about magnetic anomaly detection devices and Carl
Highland and RSI. I mean, geospatial services, Inc. GSI, my apologies, and try and say doodle
bug with a straight face. But when I found Texas Instrument in 1980, their 30 year history is
saying, Hey, we pay respects to our doodle buggers back in the day. I got a little bit more relaxed
about saying such things. So I know in this video, there was a lot of information discussed. And
you know, if you're going to purchase one book or pursue one lead after this, I can't recommend
enough buying the Ramses book that I have right here. The book is it is fantastic. It is exactly
how I like to do research. All sources are always cited. There's a massive reference tab. There's
numerous pictures. I mean, there's stuff I didn't even speak about in this video, such as the Ramses
hiring, you know, various professionals who weren't even into UFOs to reconstruct how the
Hart Canyon roads could have been used to transport the huge disk to Los Alamos. So
a ton more groundwork in that book. And, you know, I barely even scratched the surface with it.
And of course, we got the big boy here. This step certainly put a dent in my pocket. It's a pretty
expensive book. But if I was going to do a video on Aztec, I needed the book. There's so much awesome
artwork and some truly astonishing things written by Steinman here. I expressed it multiple times
in the video, but I do have frustration. Steinman so cavalierly discusses, as fact, hey, the IPU
retrieved the disk, General George Marshall got the call, you know, Highlands, sorry, Oppenheimer,
Vannevar Bush, they were all there at the site, especially Chirur and Dr. Detlef Bronck, but
doesn't give any, you know, references to his sources or even corroborating evidence. So although
he has a ton of exhibits throughout the book, and these include scanned documents, JP Kahn's debunk,
Mike McKellen's debunk, Robert Carr's testimony, he does lack there. So that is my biggest critique
of the book. But I do think it's excellent, especially the work on Dr. Eric Henry Wang.
That is a thread that continues to persist to my research today. Who was Wang? Why can I find
nothing about him besides the odd civil engineering atribune to him as he's passed and
solely his mention in Operation Upshot Knot Hole, which of course, Arthur Stanzel claimed he worked
under Dr. Eric Henry Wang for the Kingman incident and that Dr. Wang spearheaded the
reverse engineering and retrieval efforts for that. So the parallels between Aztec, Roswell,
and Kingman, I know I said in the video, are endless. These cases seem to be handled and
executed the recoveries in an extremely similar manner. You can kind of tell with the Aztec case
what's interesting to me is different methods and approaches after the folly that was Roswell.
And that included when that knucklehead Silas Newton started talking about the event.
Did Carl Highland discuss to Leo Cabauer and Silas Newton? Was he the informant of Aztec?
Maybe. I know that Steinman really presses this and I really applaud his theory there.
But if we could just have tangible evidence that under Highland's company, Leo Cabauer worked
there or Cabauer and Highland worked together in Antarctica in the 30s, like Steinman said,
the thesis would be so much stronger. I mean, even if we had evidence that Cabauer worked for Dr. Paul
Scherer in the kind of cryogenic containment units meant to freeze the biologics, we'd have so much
more to chew on there. And let me know what you think about the court case as well. I've never
covered court proceedings before, but I found it pretty interesting, especially Dr. James Meredith
of Colorado School of Mines, who was indeed in the same department as Highland, testifying that
the Doodle Bug could not find oil, let alone a submarine, and he analyzed war surplus store
parts that was quote unquote very similar to the Doodle Bug purchased for $4.45. We also proved
whether it's the work of GSI, even patents from Vannevar Bush and other patents that
magnetic anomaly detection devices or reflective seismograph technology, both of these, for the
sole purpose of finding oil was extensively utilized pre-World War II. And then in World War II,
many of the corporations or many of the brightest minds that are working on reflective seismology
or MADs to detect oil are brought in by Vannevar Bush to the OSRD to make submarine detecting
equipment. So that is relayed by Scully in the 50s for the secret war projects. That is some very
tangible stuff to work with. What else do we have that's tangible to work with? We have the Sting
operation in 50 from CID and FBI. That is interesting. We have discussions of J. Edgar Hoover
messaging about Silas Newton. Now, I don't blame individuals for at the beginning of this video
if they made it all through the end first saying, Gerb, why are you covering Aztec? It was proven
a hoax. I was victim of this as well. As I said at the beginning of this rant, so was Leonard
Stringfield. And I love that in the forward to William Steinman's book Leonard Stringfield said,
I was taken by the work of J. Pecan and Bill Moore. Bill Moore, of course, we showed him on
the move on Symposium in 89 saying he was working with intelligence agencies. Perhaps Bill Moore,
you know, there's some theories floating around that Bill Moore and Richard Doty made some majestic
documents. Maybe they had a hand in this puppy right here. But let's discuss Aztec Moore. I
say this again, this is just to kickstart research into this case. And I want to know what everybody
thinks. And, you know, before we log off for the day, a couple of action items. I was just
out of town for a to go on a show. And there I got to meet an individual who's making a documentary.
I got a signed poster here from Mr. Luigi. I think it's Vendett Tilley, right?
For Project Gravitar. You know, I had been interested in this case in this documentary
since I met Chris Ramsey back at the November hearings. And he was telling me all about,
hey, you know, I've been talking to Luigi, I've been paying attention to Gravitar,
and there's going to be a lot they're talking about Bob Lazar in this new documentary. If you
know anything about me, you'll know I've been infatuated with the story of Bob since I was a
wee youngster. But I tend not to talk about Bob because I am so biased towards him. And I will
always acknowledge that more than anything, I want to believe Bob Lazar. So I tend to
not be able to critically analyze pro or con statements with Bob. So I tend to keep him out.
But I got to see some stuff with Project Gravitar. And guys, please be excited. This is awesome.
This is exactly what I wanted from the Jeremy Corbell documentary. Luigi said to me,
you know, maybe I'm putting too much information in. And guys, if you're watching this channel and
made it here, we like too much information. So Project Gravitar is very strict on reducing drama,
following leads, especially names, full names. You know, you might have heard some names
associated with Bob's case, but we're talking full names and identified individuals. And
the photorealistic recreated S4 is something to behold. That is wicked, wicked, wicked cool.
So yeah, if you see my wall, you already see the sports model drawn by Bob and the propulsion
system by Bob. Now I'm going to have this signed Project Gravitar poster by Bob. So
it's turned into a bit of a Volkanovski and Bob shrine. If anybody has some awesome artwork
they would like to send in, please let me know. And I'll give you kind of like a PO box or a
shipping address because I would love to hang up some diagrams, some really cool art on the wall.
So please get in contact with me, uapgurb at gmail.com or uapgurb at protonmail.com. And
let's get that started because I want to feature some more artwork. Channel wise,
I got some huge stuff coming up for the channel that I'm pretty excited about.
You know, a lot of huge projects like this. It seems like every project I make these days,
I can't really get it under an hour and 45 minutes. So we'll just keep rolling with that.
I got some good ideas in the tank and some good stuff coming up outside of the channel too and
stuff around the channel. So please keep up with that. Remember guys, I do have a Patreon,
I'd love if you went and subscribed and gave me money every month. I don't gatekeep content,
so there's no restricted content on there. Or I'll probably start up YouTube memberships as
well. So feel free to give me money every month there. I don't gatekeep content. So only give
what you think the channel is worth. But if you're not going to do that, totally fine,
please at least like and subscribe the video, give me a comment what you think. I am just thrilled
that everybody is here watching and I'm incredibly blessed to have people watching the videos,
making it all the way through. So thank you so much. And again, let me know what you thought
about the Aztec case. This is just the beginning of me talking about it. So with that being said,
remember to like and subscribe. Let me know what you think and I will see everybody on the next
show. Thank you so much. Bye.